#  8.2. Design
##  8.2.1. more
There is a **more** command that comes with util-linux, but it will not work for this project. The reason is because of library dependencies and space constraints. The util-linux supplied **more** needs either the libncurses or libtermcap to work and there just is not enough space on the root disk floppy to fit everything in. So, in order to have a **more** command we will have to get creative.
The **more** command is used to display a file page by page. It's a little like having a **cat** command that pauses every twenty-five lines. The basic logic is outlined below.
  * Read one line of the file.
  * Display the line on the screen.
  * If 25 lines have been displayed, pause.
  * Loop and do it again.


Of course there are some details left out like what to do if the screen dimensions are not what we anticipated, but overall it is a fair representation of what **more** does. Given this simple program logic, it should not be hard to put together a short shell script that emulates the basic functionality of **more**. The BASH(1) manpage and Adv-BASH-Scripting-Guide will serve as references.
* * *
##  8.2.2. More device files
The **more** script will need access to device files that are not on the root disk yet. Specifically **more** needs to have `stdin`, `stdout` and `stderr`, but while we are at it we should check for any other missing `/dev` files. The Linux Standard Base requires `null`, `zero` and `tty` to be present in the `/dev` directory. Files for `null` and `tty` already exist from previous phases of the project, but we still need `/dev/zero`. We can refer to `devices.txt` in the Linux source code `Documentation` directory for major and minor numbers.
* * *
##  8.2.3. ps, sed & ed
These three packages can be found by using the Internet resources we have used before plus one new site. The "sed" and "ed" packages can be found at the same place we found BASH, on the
Both "sed" and "ed" packages feature GNU's familiar **configure** script and are therefore very easy to build. There is no **configure** script for "procps" but this does not make things too difficult. We can just read the package's `README` file to find out about how to set various configuration options. We can use one of these options to avoid the complexity of using and installing libproc. Setting `_SHARED=0_` makes `libproc` an integrated part of **ps** rather than a separate, shared library.
* * *
