##  7.2.2. The du command
Now that you know how much space has been used on a filesystem how can you find out where that data is? To view usage by a directory or file you can use **du**. Unless you specify a filename **du** will act recursively. For example:
```
`user@server:~> ``**du file.txt**`
`1300    file.txt`
```

---
Or like the**df** I can use the **-h** and get the same output in "human-readable" form. ```
`user@server:~> ``**du -h file.txt**`
`1.3M     file.txt`
```

---
Unless you specify a filename **du** will act recursively.
```
`user@server:~> ``**du -h /usr/local**`
`4.0K    /usr/local/games
16K     /usr/local/include/nessus/net
180K    /usr/local/include/nessus
208K    /usr/local/include
62M     /usr/local/lib/nessus/plugins/.desc
97M     /usr/local/lib/nessus/plugins
164K    /usr/local/lib/nessus/plugins_factory
97M     /usr/local/lib/nessus
12K     /usr/local/lib/pkgconfig
2.7M    /usr/local/lib/ladspa
104M    /usr/local/lib
112K    /usr/local/man/man1
4.0K    /usr/local/man/man2
4.0K    /usr/local/man/man3
4.0K    /usr/local/man/man4
16K     /usr/local/man/man5
4.0K    /usr/local/man/man`
```

---
If you just want a summary of that directory you can use the **-s** option.
```
`user@server:~> ``**du -hs /usr/local**`
`210M    /usr/local`
```

---
* * *
##  7.2.3. Quotas
For more information about quotas you can read [The Quota HOWTO ](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Quota.html).
* * *
#  7.3. Monitoring Users
> Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they AREN'T out to get you... Source Unknown
From time to time there are going to be occasions where you will want to know exactly what people are doing on your system. Maybe you notice that a lot of RAM is being used, or a lot of CPU activity. You are going to want to see who is on the system, what they are running, and what kind of resources they are using.
* * *
##  7.3.1. The who command
The easiest way to see who is on the system is to do a **who** or **w**. The --> **who** is a simple tool that lists out who is logged --> on the system and what port or terminal they are logged on at.
```
`user@server:~>` `** who**`
`bjones   pts/0        May 23 09:33
wally    pts/3        May 20 11:35
aweeks   pts/1        May 22 11:03
aweeks   pts/2        May 23 15:04`
```

---
* * *
##  7.3.2. The ps command -again!
In the previous section we can see that user aweeks is logged onto both `pts/1` and `pts/2`, but what if we want to see what they are doing? We could to a **ps -u aweeks** and get the following output
```
`user@server:~> ``**ps -u aweeks**`
`
20876 pts/1    00:00:00 bash
20904 pts/2    00:00:00 bash
20951 pts/2    00:00:00 ssh
21012 pts/1    00:00:00 ps`
```

---
From this we can see that the user is doing a**ps** **ssh**.
This is a much more consolidated use of the **ps** than discussed previously.
* * *
##  7.3.3. The w command
Even easier than using the **who** and **ps -u** commands is to use the **w**. **w** will print out not only who is on the system, but also the commands they are running.
```
`user@server:~> ``**w**`
`aweeks   :0        09:32   ?xdm?  30:09   0.02s -:0
aweeks   pts/0     09:33    5:49m  0.00s  0.82s kdeinit: kded
aweeks   pts/2     09:35    8.00s  0.55s  0.36s vi sag-0.9.sgml
aweeks   pts/1     15:03   59.00s  0.03s  0.03s /bin/bash`
```

---
From this we can see that I have a **kde** session running, I'm working in this document :-), and have another terminal open sitting idle at a bash prompt.
* * *
##  7.3.4. The skill command
To Be Added
* * *
##  7.3.5. nice and renice
To Be Added
* * *
#  Chapter 8. Boots And Shutdowns
> Start me up
>  Ah... you've got to... you've got to
>  Never, never never stop
>  Start it up
>  Ah... start it up, never, never, never
>  You make a grown man cry,
>  you make a grown man cry
>  (Rolling Stones)
This section explains what goes on when a Linux system is brought up and taken down, and how it should be done properly. If proper procedures are not followed, files might be corrupted or lost.
* * *
#  8.1. An overview of boots and shutdowns
The act of turning on a computer system and causing its operating system to be loaded is called _booting_. The name comes from an image of the computer pulling itself up from its bootstraps, but the act itself slightly more realistic.
During bootstrapping, the computer first loads a small piece of code called the _bootstrap loader_ , which in turn loads and starts the operating system. The bootstrap loader is usually stored in a fixed location on a hard disk or a floppy. The reason for this two step process is that the operating system is big and complicated, but the first piece of code that the computer loads must be very small (a few hundred bytes), to avoid making the firmware unnecessarily complicated.
Different computers do the bootstrapping differently. For PCs, the computer (its BIOS) reads in the first sector (called the _boot sector_) of a floppy or hard disk. The bootstrap loader is contained within this sector. It loads the operating system from elsewhere on the disk (or from some other place).
After Linux has been loaded, it initializes the hardware and device drivers, and then runs **init**. **init** starts other processes to allow users to log in, and do things. The details of this part will be discussed below.
In order to shut down a Linux system, first all processes are told to terminate (this makes them close any files and do other necessary things to keep things tidy), then filesystems and swap areas are unmounted, and finally a message is printed to the console that the power can be turned off. If the proper procedure is not followed, terrible things can and will happen; most importantly, the filesystem buffer cache might not be flushed, which means that all data in it is lost and the filesystem on disk is inconsistent, and therefore possibly unusable.
* * *
#  8.2. The boot process in closer look
When a PC is booted, the BIOS will do various tests to check that everything looks all right, and will then start the actual booting. This process is called the _power on self test_ , or POST for short. It will choose a disk drive (typically the first floppy drive, if there is a floppy inserted, otherwise the first hard disk, if one is installed in the computer; the order might be configurable, however) and will then read its very first sector. This is called the _boot sector_ ; for a hard disk, it is also called the _master boot record_ , since a hard disk can contain several partitions, each with their own boot sectors.
The boot sector contains a small program (small enough to fit into one sector) whose responsibility is to read the actual operating system from the disk and start it. When booting Linux from a floppy disk, the boot sector contains code that just reads the first few hundred blocks (depending on the actual kernel size, of course) to a predetermined place in memory. On a Linux boot floppy, there is no filesystem, the kernel is just stored in consecutive sectors, since this simplifies the boot process. It is possible, however, to boot from a floppy with a filesystem, by using LILO, the LInux LOader, or GRUB, the GRand Unifying Bootloader.
When booting from the hard disk, the code in the master boot record will examine the partition table (also in the master boot record), identify the active partition (the partition that is marked to be bootable), read the boot sector from that partition, and then start the code in that boot sector. The code in the partition's boot sector does what a floppy disk's boot sector does: it will read in the kernel from the partition and start it. The details vary, however, since it is generally not useful to have a separate partition for just the kernel image, so the code in the partition's boot sector can't just read the disk in sequential order, it has to find the sectors wherever the filesystem has put them. There are several ways around this problem, but the most common way is to use a boot loader like LILO or GRUB. (The details about how to do this are irrelevant for this discussion, however; see the LILO or GRUB documentation for more information; it is most thorough.)
When booting, the bootloader will normally go right ahead and read in and boot the default kernel. It is also possible to configure the boot loader to be able to boot one of several kernels, or even other operating systems than Linux, and it is possible for the user to choose which kernel or operating system is to be booted at boot time. LILO, for example, can be configured so that if one holds down the **alt** , **shift** , or **ctrl** key at boot time (when LILO is loaded), LILO will ask what is to be booted and not boot the default right away. Alternatively, the bootloader can be configured so that it will always ask, with an optional timeout that will cause the default kernel to be booted.
It is also possible to give a _kernel command line argument_ , after the name of the kernel or operating system. For a list of possible options you can read [ http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/BootPrompt-HOWTO.html](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/BootPrompt-HOWTO.html).
Booting from floppy and from hard disk have both their advantages, but generally booting from the hard disk is nicer, since it avoids the hassle of playing around with floppies. It is also faster. Most Linux distributions will setup the bootloader for you during the install process.
After the Linux kernel has been read into the memory, by whatever means, and is started for real, roughly the following things happen:
  * The Linux kernel is installed compressed, so it will first uncompress itself. The beginning of the kernel image contains a small program that does this.
  * If you have a super-VGA card that Linux recognizes and that has some special text modes (such as 100 columns by 40 rows), Linux asks you which mode you want to use. During the kernel compilation, it is possible to preset a video mode, so that this is never asked. This can also be done with LILO, GRUB or **rdev**.
  * After this, the kernel checks what other hardware there is (hard disks, floppies, network adapters, etc), and configures some of its device drivers appropriately; while it does this, it outputs messages about its findings. For example, when I boot, I it looks like this:
```
`LILO boot:
Loading linux.
Console: colour EGA+ 80x25, 8 virtual consoles
Serial driver version 3.94 with no serial options enabled
tty00 at 0x03f8 (irq = 4) is a 16450
tty01 at 0x02f8 (irq = 3) is a 16450
lp_init: lp1 exists (0), using polling driver
Memory: 7332k/8192k available (300k kernel code, 384k reserved, 176k
data)
Floppy drive(s): fd0 is 1.44M, fd1 is 1.2M
Loopback device init
Warning WD8013 board not found at i/o = 280.
Math coprocessor using irq13 error reporting.
Partition check:
  had: hda1 hda2 hda3
VFS: Mounted root (ext filesystem).
Linux version 0.99.pl9-1 (root@haven) 05/01/93 14:12:20`
```

---
The exact texts are different on different systems, depending on the hardware, the version of Linux being used, and how it has been configured.
  * Then the kernel will try to mount the root filesystem. The place is configurable at compilation time, or any time with **rdev** or the bootloader. The filesystem type is detected automatically. If the mounting of the root filesystem fails, for example because you didn't remember to include the corresponding filesystem driver in the kernel, the kernel panics and halts the system (there isn't much it can do, anyway).
The root filesystem is usually mounted read-only (this can be set in the same way as the place). This makes it possible to check the filesystem while it is mounted; it is not a good idea to check a filesystem that is mounted read-write.
  * After this, the kernel starts the program **init** (located in `/sbin/init`) in the background (this will always become process number 1). **init** does various startup chores. The exact things it does depends on how it is configured; see [Section 2.3.1](https://tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/sag.html#INIT) for more information (not yet written). It will at least start some essential background daemons.
  * **init** then switches to multi-user mode, and starts a **getty** for virtual consoles and serial lines. **getty** is the program which lets people log in via virtual consoles and serial terminals. **init** may also start some other programs, depending on how it is configured.
  * After this, the boot is complete, and the system is up and running normally.


* * *
##  8.2.1. A Word About Bootloaders
TO BE ADDED
This section will give an overview of the difference between GRUB and LILO.
For more information on LILO, you can read [ http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/LILO.html](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/LILO.html)
For more information on GRUB, you can visit
* * *
#  8.3. More about shutdowns
It is important to follow the correct procedures when you shut down a Linux system. If you fail do so, your filesystems probably will become trashed and the files probably will become scrambled. This is because Linux has a disk cache that won't write things to disk at once, but only at intervals. This greatly improves performance but also means that if you just turn off the power at a whim the cache may hold a lot of data and that what is on the disk may not be a fully working filesystem (because only some things have been written to the disk).
Another reason against just flipping the power switch is that in a multi-tasking system there can be lots of things going on in the background, and shutting the power can be quite disastrous. By using the proper shutdown sequence, you ensure that all background processes can save their data.
The command for properly shutting down a Linux system is **shutdown**. It is usually used in one of two ways.
If you are running a system where you are the only user, the usual way of using **shutdown** is to quit all running programs, log out on all virtual consoles, log in as root on one of them (or stay logged in as root if you already are, but you should change to root's home directory or the root directory, to avoid problems with unmounting), then give the command **shutdown -h now** (substitute `now` with a plus sign and a number in minutes if you want a delay, though you usually don't on a single user system).
Alternatively, if your system has many users, use the command **shutdown -h +time message** , where `time` is the time in minutes until the system is halted, and `message` is a short explanation of why the system is shutting down.
```
`#` `**shutdown -h +10 'We will install a new
disk.  System should
> be back on-line in three hours.'**`
`#`
```

---
This will warn everybody that the system will shut down in ten minutes, and that they'd better get lost or lose data. The warning is printed to every terminal on which someone is logged in, including all**xterm** s: ```
`Broadcast message from root (ttyp0) Wed Aug  2 01:03:25 1995...

We will install a new disk.  System should
be back on-line in three hours.
The system is going DOWN for system halt in 10 minutes !!`
```

---
The warning is automatically repeated a few times before the boot, with shorter and shorter intervals as the time runs out.
When the real shutting down starts after any delays, all filesystems (except the root one) are unmounted, user processes (if anybody is still logged in) are killed, daemons are shut down, all filesystem are unmounted, and generally everything settles down. When that is done, **init** prints out a message that you can power down the machine. Then, and only then, should you move your fingers towards the power switch.
Sometimes, although rarely on any good system, it is impossible to shut down properly. For instance, if the kernel panics and crashes and burns and generally misbehaves, it might be completely impossible to give any new commands, hence shutting down properly is somewhat difficult, and just about everything you can do is hope that nothing has been too severely damaged and turn off the power. If the troubles are a bit less severe (say, somebody hit your keyboard with an axe), and the kernel and the **update** program still run normally, it is probably a good idea to wait a couple of minutes to give **update** a chance to flush the buffer cache, and only cut the power after that.
In the old days, some people like to shut down using the command **sync** three times, waiting for the disk I/O to stop, then turn off the power. If there are no running programs, this is equivalent to using **shutdown**. However, it does not unmount any filesystems and this can lead to problems with the ext2fs ``clean filesystem'' flag. The triple-sync method is _not recommended_.
(In case you're wondering: the reason for three syncs is that in the early days of UNIX, when the commands were typed separately, that usually gave sufficient time for most disk I/O to be finished.)
* * *
