## Availability capabilities
Azure SQL Database enables your business to continue operating during disruptions. In a traditional SQL Server environment, you generally have at least two machines locally set up. These machines have exact, synchronously maintained, copies of the data to protect against a failure of a single machine or component. This environment provides high availability, but it doesn't protect against a natural disaster destroying your datacenter.
Disaster recovery assumes that a catastrophic event is geographically localized enough to have another machine or set of machines with a copy of your data far away. In SQL Server, you can use Always On Availability Groups running in async mode to get this capability. People often don't want to wait for replication to happen that far away before committing a transaction, so there's potential for data loss when you do unplanned failovers.
Databases in the Premium and Business Critical service tiers already [do something similar](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/high-availability-sla-local-zone-redundancy?view=azuresql#locally-redundant-availability) to the synchronization of an availability group. Databases in lower service tiers provide redundancy through storage by using a [different but equivalent mechanism](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/high-availability-sla-local-zone-redundancy?view=azuresql#locally-redundant-availability). Built-in logic helps protect against a single machine failure. The active geo-replication feature protects your databases against broad region-wide outages.
Azure Availability Zones tries to protect against the outage of a single datacenter building within a single region. It helps you protect against the loss of power or network to a building. In SQL Database, you place the different replicas in different availability zones (different buildings, effectively).
In fact, the service level agreement [(SLA)](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/sla/) of Azure, powered by a global network of Microsoft-managed datacenters, helps keep your app running 24/7. The Azure platform fully manages every database, and it guarantees no data loss and a high percentage of data availability. Azure automatically handles patching, backups, replication, failure detection, underlying potential hardware, software or network failures, deploying bug fixes, failovers, database upgrades, and other maintenance tasks. Standard availability is achieved by a separation of compute and storage layers. Premium availability is achieved by integrating compute and storage on a single node for performance, and then implementing technology similar to Always On Availability Groups. For a full discussion of the high availability capabilities of Azure SQL Database, see [SQL Database availability](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/high-availability-sla-local-zone-redundancy?view=azuresql).
In addition, SQL Database provides built-in [business continuity and global scalability](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/business-continuity-high-availability-disaster-recover-hadr-overview?view=azuresql) features. These include:
  * [Automatic backups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/automated-backups-overview?view=azuresql):
SQL Database automatically performs full, differential, and transaction log backups of databases to enable you to restore to any point in time. For single databases and pooled databases, you can configure SQL Database to store full database backups to Azure Storage for long-term backup retention. For managed instances, you can also perform copy-only backups for long-term backup retention.
  * [Point-in-time restores](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/recovery-using-backups?view=azuresql):
All SQL Database deployment options support recovery to any point in time within the automatic backup retention period for any database.
  * [Active geo-replication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/active-geo-replication-overview?view=azuresql):
The single database and pooled databases options allow you to configure up to four readable secondary databases in either the same or globally distributed Azure datacenters. For example, if you have a SaaS application with a catalog database that has a high volume of concurrent read-only transactions, use active geo-replication to enable global read scale and remove bottlenecks on the primary that are due to read workloads.
  * [Failover groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/failover-group-sql-db?view=azuresql):
All SQL Database deployment options allow you to use failover groups to enable high availability and load balancing at global scale. Failover groups allow for transparent geo-replication and failover of large sets of databases, and elastic pools. Failover groups enable the creation of globally distributed SaaS applications, with minimal administration overhead. This leaves all the complex monitoring, routing, and failover orchestration to SQL Database.
  * [Zone-redundant databases](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/high-availability-sla-local-zone-redundancy?view=azuresql):
SQL Database allows you to provision Premium or Business Critical databases or elastic pools across multiple availability zones. Because these databases and elastic pools have multiple redundant replicas for high availability, placing these replicas into multiple availability zones provides higher resilience. This includes the ability to recover automatically from the datacenter scale failures, without data loss.


[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview?view=azuresql#built-in-intelligence)
