## Built-in intelligence
With SQL Database, you get built-in intelligence that helps you dramatically reduce the costs of running and managing databases, and that maximizes both performance and security of your application. The SQL Database platform collects and processes a massive amount of telemetry data while fully respecting customer privacy. Various algorithms continuously evaluate the telemetry data so that the service can learn and adapt with your application.
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview?view=azuresql#automatic-performance-monitoring-and-tuning)
### Automatic performance monitoring and tuning
SQL Database provides detailed insight into the queries that you need to monitor. SQL Database learns about your database patterns, and enables you to adapt your database schema to your workload. SQL Database provides [performance tuning recommendations](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/database-advisor-implement-performance-recommendations?view=azuresql), where you can review tuning actions and apply them.
Managing a huge number of databases might be impossible to do efficiently even with all available tools and reports that SQL Database and Azure provide. Instead of monitoring and tuning your database manually, you might consider delegating some of the monitoring and tuning actions to SQL Database by using [automatic tuning](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/automatic-tuning-overview?view=azuresql). SQL Database automatically applies recommendations, tests, and verifies each of its tuning actions to ensure the performance keeps improving. This way, SQL Database automatically adapts to your workload in a controlled and safe way. Automatic tuning means that the performance of your database is carefully monitored and compared before and after every tuning action. If the performance doesn't improve, the tuning action is reverted.
Many of our partners that run [SaaS multitenant apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/saas-tenancy-app-design-patterns?view=azuresql) on top of SQL Database are relying on automatic performance tuning to make sure their applications always have stable and predictable performance. For them, this feature tremendously reduces the risk of having a performance incident in the middle of the night. In addition, because part of their customer base also uses SQL Server, they're using the same indexing recommendations provided by SQL Database to help their SQL Server customers.
Two automatic tuning aspects are [available in SQL Database](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/automatic-tuning-overview?view=azuresql):
  * **Automatic index management** : Identifies indexes that should be added in your database, and indexes that should be removed.
  * **Automatic plan correction** : Identifies problematic plans and fixes SQL plan performance problems.


[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview?view=azuresql#adaptive-query-processing)
### Adaptive query processing
You can use [adaptive query processing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/performance/intelligent-query-processing), including interleaved execution for multi-statement table-valued functions, batch mode memory grant feedback, and batch mode adaptive joins. Each of these adaptive query processing features applies similar "learn and adapt" techniques, helping further address performance issues related to historically intractable query optimization problems.
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview?view=azuresql#advanced-security-and-compliance)
