# MAKEDEV *
which will create all devices known.
If is possible that /dev may also contain a MAKEDEV.local for the creation of any local device files.
In general and as required by the FSSTND, MAKEDEV will have provisions for creating any device that may be found on the system, not just those that a particular implementation installs.
For those of you who are wondering why Linux is using such a primitive system to reference devices its because we haven't been able to devise a sufficiently sophisticated mechanism which provides enough advantages over the current system in order to achieve widespread adoption.
To date (as of kernel version 2.4), the best attempt has been made by Richard Gooch of the CSIRO. It's called devfsd and has been a part of the kernel for a number of years now. It has been sanctioned by the kernel developers and Linus himself and details of its implementation can be found at /usr/src/linux/Documentation/filesystems/devfs/README. Below is an excerpt from this document.
Devfs is an alternative to "real" character and block special devices on your root filesystem. Kernel device drivers can register devices by name rather than major and minor numbers. These devices will appear in devfs automatically, with whatever default ownership and protection the driver specified. A daemon (devfsd) can be used to override these defaults. Devfs has been in the kernel since 2.3.46.
NOTE that devfs is entirely optional. If you prefer the old disc-based device nodes, then simply leave CONFIG_DEVFS_FS=n (the default). In this case, nothing will change. ALSO NOTE that if you do enable devfs, the defaults are such that full compatibility is maintained with the old devices names.
There are two aspects to devfs: one is the underlying device namespace, which is a namespace just like any mounted filesystem. The other aspect is the filesystem code which provides a view of the device namespace. The reason I make a distinction is because devfs can be mounted many times, with each mount showing the same device namespace. Changes made are global to all mounted devfs filesystems. Also, because the devfs namespace exists without any devfs mounts, you can easily mount the root filesystem by referring to an entry in the devfs namespace.
The cost of devfs is a small increase in kernel code size and memory usage. About 7 pages of code (some of that in __init sections) and 72 bytes for each entry in the namespace. A modest system has only a couple of hundred device entries, so this costs a few more pages. Compare this with the suggestion to put /dev on a ramdisc.
On a typical machine, the cost is under 0.2 percent. On a modest system with 64 MBytes of RAM, the cost is under 0.1 percent. The accusations of "bloatware" levelled at devfs are not justified.
As of kernel version 2.6, devfs has been marked obsolete and has now been replaced by udev. A system very similar (at least from a the end user's point of view) to devfs but which works entirely in userspace. An overview of udev can be found at
* * *
