## Design[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#Design)
### Does Go have a runtime?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#runtime)
Go has an extensive runtime library, often just called the _runtime_ , that is part of every Go program. This library implements garbage collection, concurrency, stack management, and other critical features of the Go language. Although it is more central to the language, Go’s runtime is analogous to `libc`, the C library.
It is important to understand, however, that Go’s runtime does not include a virtual machine, such as is provided by the Java runtime. Go programs are compiled ahead of time to native machine code (or JavaScript or WebAssembly, for some variant implementations). Thus, although the term is often used to describe the virtual environment in which a program runs, in Go the word “runtime” is just the name given to the library providing critical language services.
### What’s up with Unicode identifiers?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#unicode_identifiers)
When designing Go, we wanted to make sure that it was not overly ASCII-centric, which meant extending the space of identifiers from the confines of 7-bit ASCII. Go’s rule—identifier characters must be letters or digits as defined by Unicode—is simple to understand and to implement but has restrictions. Combining characters are excluded by design, for instance, and that excludes some languages such as Devanagari.
This rule has one other unfortunate consequence. Since an exported identifier must begin with an upper-case letter, identifiers created from characters in some languages can, by definition, not be exported. For now the only solution is to use something like `X日本語`, which is clearly unsatisfactory.
Since the earliest version of the language, there has been considerable thought into how best to expand the identifier space to accommodate programmers using other native languages. Exactly what to do remains an active topic of discussion, and a future version of the language may be more liberal in its definition of an identifier. For instance, it might adopt some of the ideas from the Unicode organization’s
For the time being, we have a simple rule that can be expanded later without breaking programs, one that avoids bugs that would surely arise from a rule that admits ambiguous identifiers.
### Why does Go not have feature X?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#Why_doesnt_Go_have_feature_X)
Every language contains novel features and omits someone’s favorite feature. Go was designed with an eye on felicity of programming, speed of compilation, orthogonality of concepts, and the need to support features such as concurrency and garbage collection. Your favorite feature may be missing because it doesn’t fit, because it affects compilation speed or clarity of design, or because it would make the fundamental system model too difficult.
If it bothers you that Go is missing feature _X_ , please forgive us and investigate the features that Go does have. You might find that they compensate in interesting ways for the lack of _X_.
### When did Go get generic types?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#generics)
The Go 1.18 release added type parameters to the language. This permits a form of polymorphic or generic programming. See the [language spec](https://go.dev/ref/spec) and the [proposal](https://go.dev/design/43651-type-parameters) for details.
### Why was Go initially released without generic types?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#beginning_generics)
Go was intended as a language for writing server programs that would be easy to maintain over time. (See [this article](https://go.dev/talks/2012/splash.article) for more background.) The design concentrated on things like scalability, readability, and concurrency. Polymorphic programming did not seem essential to the language’s goals at the time, and so was initially left out for simplicity.
Generics are convenient but they come at a cost in complexity in the type system and run-time. It took a while to develop a design that we believe gives value proportionate to the complexity.
### Why does Go not have exceptions?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#exceptions)
We believe that coupling exceptions to a control structure, as in the `try-catch-finally` idiom, results in convoluted code. It also tends to encourage programmers to label too many ordinary errors, such as failing to open a file, as exceptional.
Go takes a different approach. For plain error handling, Go’s multi-value returns make it easy to report an error without overloading the return value. [A canonical error type, coupled with Go’s other features](https://go.dev/doc/articles/error_handling.html), makes error handling pleasant but quite different from that in other languages.
Go also has a couple of built-in functions to signal and recover from truly exceptional conditions. The recovery mechanism is executed only as part of a function’s state being torn down after an error, which is sufficient to handle catastrophe but requires no extra control structures and, when used well, can result in clean error-handling code.
See the [Defer, Panic, and Recover](https://go.dev/doc/articles/defer_panic_recover.html) article for details. Also, the [Errors are values](https://go.dev/blog/errors-are-values) blog post describes one approach to handling errors cleanly in Go by demonstrating that, since errors are just values, the full power of Go can be deployed in error handling.
### Why does Go not have assertions?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#assertions)
Go doesn’t provide assertions. They are undeniably convenient, but our experience has been that programmers use them as a crutch to avoid thinking about proper error handling and reporting. Proper error handling means that servers continue to operate instead of crashing after a non-fatal error. Proper error reporting means that errors are direct and to the point, saving the programmer from interpreting a large crash trace. Precise errors are particularly important when the programmer seeing the errors is not familiar with the code.
We understand that this is a point of contention. There are many things in the Go language and libraries that differ from modern practices, simply because we feel it’s sometimes worth trying a different approach.
### Why build concurrency on the ideas of CSP?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#csp)
Concurrency and multi-threaded programming have over time developed a reputation for difficulty. We believe this is due partly to complex designs such as
One of the most successful models for providing high-level linguistic support for concurrency comes from Hoare’s Communicating Sequential Processes, or CSP. Occam and Erlang are two well known languages that stem from CSP. Go’s concurrency primitives derive from a different part of the family tree whose main contribution is the powerful notion of channels as first class objects. Experience with several earlier languages has shown that the CSP model fits well into a procedural language framework.
### Why goroutines instead of threads?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#goroutines)
Goroutines are part of making concurrency easy to use. The idea, which has been around for a while, is to multiplex independently executing functions—coroutines—onto a set of threads. When a coroutine blocks, such as by calling a blocking system call, the run-time automatically moves other coroutines on the same operating system thread to a different, runnable thread so they won’t be blocked. The programmer sees none of this, which is the point. The result, which we call goroutines, can be very cheap: they have little overhead beyond the memory for the stack, which is just a few kilobytes.
To make the stacks small, Go’s run-time uses resizable, bounded stacks. A newly minted goroutine is given a few kilobytes, which is almost always enough. When it isn’t, the run-time grows (and shrinks) the memory for storing the stack automatically, allowing many goroutines to live in a modest amount of memory. The CPU overhead averages about three cheap instructions per function call. It is practical to create hundreds of thousands of goroutines in the same address space. If goroutines were just threads, system resources would run out at a much smaller number.
### Why are map operations not defined to be atomic?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#atomic_maps)
After long discussion it was decided that the typical use of maps did not require safe access from multiple goroutines, and in those cases where it did, the map was probably part of some larger data structure or computation that was already synchronized. Therefore requiring that all map operations grab a mutex would slow down most programs and add safety to few. This was not an easy decision, however, since it means uncontrolled map access can crash the program.
The language does not preclude atomic map updates. When required, such as when hosting an untrusted program, the implementation could interlock map access.
Map access is unsafe only when updates are occurring. As long as all goroutines are only reading—looking up elements in the map, including iterating through it using a `for` `range` loop—and not changing the map by assigning to elements or doing deletions, it is safe for them to access the map concurrently without synchronization.
As an aid to correct map use, some implementations of the language contain a special check that automatically reports at run time when a map is modified unsafely by concurrent execution. Also there is a type in the sync library called [`sync.Map`](https://pkg.go.dev/sync#Map) that works well for certain usage patterns such as static caches, although it is not suitable as a general replacement for the builtin map type.
### Will you accept my language change?[¶](https://go.dev/doc/faq#language_changes)
People often suggest improvements to the language—the
Although Go is an open source project, the language and libraries are protected by a [compatibility promise](https://go.dev/doc/go1compat.html) that prevents changes that break existing programs, at least at the source code level (programs may need to be recompiled occasionally to stay current). If your proposal violates the Go 1 specification we cannot even entertain the idea, regardless of its merit. A future major release of Go may be incompatible with Go 1, but discussions on that topic have only just begun and one thing is certain: there will be very few such incompatibilities introduced in the process. Moreover, the compatibility promise encourages us to provide an automatic path forward for old programs to adapt should that situation arise.
Even if your proposal is compatible with the Go 1 spec, it might not be in the spirit of Go’s design goals. The article _[Go at Google: Language Design in the Service of Software Engineering](https://go.dev/talks/2012/splash.article)_ explains Go’s origins and the motivation behind its design.
