

* * *
##  11.3.2. Using Ncurses
To create the snapshot, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Create->Feature Object to see a list of EVMS feature objects.
  2. Select Snapshot Feature.
  3. Activate Next.
  4. Select `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region.`
  5. Activate Next.
  6. Press **spacebar** to edit the "Volume to be Snapshotted" field.
  7. Highlight `/dev/evms/vol` and press **spacebar** to select.
  8. Activate OK.
  9. Highlight "Snapshot Object Name" and press **spacebar** to edit.
  10. Type `**snap**` at the "::" prompt. Press **Enter**.
  11. Activate Create.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create a snapshot with the context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Available Objects view, press **Enter** on `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  2. Activate the Create Feature Object menu item.
  3. Continue creating the snapshot beginning with step 6 of the Ncurses instructions.


* * *
##  11.3.3. Using the CLI
Use the **create** command to create a snapshot through the CLI. You pass the "Object" keyword to the **create** command, followed by the plug-in and its options, and finally the objects.
To determine the options for the plug-in you are going to use, issue the following command:
```
query: plugins, plugin=Snapshot, list options
```

---
Now construct the **create** command, as follows:
```
create: object, Snapshot={original=/dev/evms/vol, snapshot=snap},
"lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region"
```

---
* * *
#  11.4. Reinitializing a snapshot
Snapshots can be reinitialized. Reinitializing causes all of the saved data to be erased and starts the snapshot from the current point in time. A reinitialized snapshot has the same original, chunk size, and writeable flags as the original snapshot.
To reinitialize a snapshot, use the **Reset** command on the snapshot object (not the snapshot volume). This command reinitializes the snapshot without requiring you to manually deactivate and reactivate the volume. The snapshot must be active but unmounted for it to be reinitialized.
This section continues the example from the previous section, where a snapshot object and volume were created. The snapshot object is called "snap" and the volume is called "/dev/evms/snap."
* * *
##  11.4.1. Using the EVMS GUI or Ncurses
To reinitialize a snapshot, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Other->Storage Object Tasks
  2. Select the volume "snap."
  3. Click or activate Next.
  4. Select Reset.
  5. Click or activate Next.
  6. Click or activate Reset on the action panel.
  7. Click or activate Reset on the warning panel.


Alternatively, you can perform these same steps with the context sensitive menus:
  1. From the Feature Objects panel, right click (or press **Enter** on) the object snap.
  2. Click or activate Reset on the popup menu.
  3. Click or activate Reset on the action panel.
  4. Click or activate Reset on the warning panel.


* * *
##  11.4.2. Using the CLI
Follow these steps to reinitialize a snapshot with the CLI:
  1. Issue the following command to the CLI:
```
task:reset,snap
```

---
  2. Press **Enter** to select "Reset" (the default choice) at the warning message.


* * *
#  11.5. Expanding a snapshot
As mentioned in [Section 11.2](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#createactivsnap), as data is copied from the original volume to the snapshot, the space available for the snapshot might fill up, causing the snapshot to be invalidated. This situation might cause your data backup to end prematurely, as the snapshot volume begins returning I/O errors after it is invalidated.
To solve this problem, EVMS now has the ability to expand the storage space for a snapshot object while the snapshot volume is active and mounted. This feature allows you to initially create a small snapshot object and expand the object as necessary as the space begins to fill up.
In order to expand the snapshot object, the underlying object must be expandable. Continuing the example from the previous sections, the object "snap" is built on the LVM region `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`. When we refer to expanding the "snap" object, the region `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region` is the object that actually gets expanded, and the object "snap" simply makes use of the new space on that region. Thus, to have expandable snapshots, you will usually want to build your snapshot objects on top of LVM regions that have extra freespace available in their LVM container. DriveLink objects and some disk segments also work in certain situations.
One notable quirk about expanding snapshots is that the snapshot object and volume do not actually appear to expand after the operation is complete. Because the snapshot volume is supposed to be a frozen image of the original volume, the snapshot volume always has the same size as the original, even if the snapshot has been expanded. However, you can verify that the snapshot object is using the additional space by displaying the details for the snapshot object and comparing the percent-full field before and after the expand operation.
* * *
##  11.5.1. Using the EVMS GUI or Ncurses
To create the snapshot using the GUI or Ncurses, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Expand->Volume to see a list of EVMS feature objects.
  2. Select the volume /dev/evms/snap.
  3. Click or activate Next.
  4. Select lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region. This object is the object that will actually be expanded.
  5. Click or activate Next.
  6. Select the options for expanding the LVM region, including the amount of extra space to add to the region.
  7. Click or activate Expand.


Alternatively, you can perform the same steps using the context sensitive menus.
  1. From the Volumes panel, right click (or press **Enter** on) /dev/evms/snap.
  2. Select Expand from the popup menu.
  3. Click or activate Next.
  4. Select the region lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region. This is the object that will actually be expanded.
  5. Click or activate Next.
  6. Select the options for expanding the LVM region, including the amount of extra space to add to the region.
  7. Click or activate Expand.


* * *
##  11.5.2. Using the CLI
The CLI expands volumes by targeting the object to be expanded. The CLI automatically handles expanding the volume and other objects above the volume in the volume stock. As with a regular expand operation, the options are determined by the plug-in that owns the object being expanded.
Issue the following command to determine the expand options for the region `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`:
```
query:region,region="lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region",lo
```

---
The option to use for expanding this region is called "add_size." Issue the following command to expand the snapshot by 100 MB:
```
expand:"lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region", add_size=100MB
```

---
* * *
#  11.6. Deleting a snapshot
When a snapshot is no longer needed, you can remove it by deleting the EVMS volume from the snapshot object, and then deleting the snapshot object. Because the snapshot saved the initial state of the original volume (and not the changed state), the original is always up-to-date and does not need any modifications when a snapshot is deleted.
No options are available for deleting snapshots.
* * *
#  11.7. Rolling back a snapshot
Situations can arise where a user wants to restore the original volume to the saved state of the snapshot. This action is called a rollback. One such scenario is if the data on the original is lost or corrupted. Snapshot rollback acts as a quick backup and restore mechanism, and allows the user to avoid a more lengthy restore operation from tapes or other archives.
Another situation where rollback can be particularly useful is when you are testing new software. Before you install a new software package, create a writeable snapshot of the target volume. You can then install the software to the snapshot volume, instead of to the original, and then test and verify the new software on the snapshot. If the testing is successful, you can then roll back the snapshot to the original and effectively install the software on the regular system. If there is a problem during the testing, you can simply delete the snapshot without harming the original volume.
You can perform a rollback when the following conditions are met:
  * Both the snapshot and the original volumes are unmounted and otherwise not in use.
  * There is only a single snapshot of an original.
If an original has multiple snapshots, all but the desired snapshot must be deleted before rollback can take place.


No options are available for rolling back snapshots.
* * *
##  11.7.1. Using the EVMS GUI or Ncurses
Follow these steps to roll back a snapshot with the EVMS GUI or Ncurses:
  1. Select Actions->Other->Storage Object Tasks+.+ +
  2. Select the object "snap."
  3. Click or activate Next.
  4. Select Rollback
.
  5. Click or activate Next.
  6. Click or activate Rollback on the action panel.
  7. Click or activate Rollback on the warning panel.


Alternatively, you can perform these same steps with the context-sensitive menus:
  1. From the Feature Objects panel, right click (or press **Enter** on) the object "snap."
  2. Click or activate Rollback on the popup menu.
  3. Click or activate Rollback on the action panel.
  4. Click or activate Rollback on the warning panel.


* * *
##  11.7.2. Using the CLI
Follow these steps to roll back a snapshot with the CLI:
  1. Issue the following command to the CLI:
```
task:rollback,snap
```

---
  2. Press **Enter** to select "Rollback" (the default choice) at the warning message.


* * *
#  Chapter 12. Creating volumes
This chapter discusses when and how to create volumes.
* * *
#  12.1. When to create a volume
EVMS treats volumes and storage objects separately. A storage object does not automatically become a volume; it must be made into a volume.
Volumes are created from storage objects. Volumes are either EVMS native volumes or compatibility volumes. Compatibility volumes are intended to be compatible with a volume manager other than EVMS, such as the Linux LVM, MD, OS/2 or AIX. Compatibility volumes might have restrictions on what EVMS can do with them. EVMS native volumes have no such restrictions, but they can be used only by an EVMS equipped system. Volumes are mountable and can contain file systems.
EVMS native volumes contain EVMS-specific information to identify the volume name. After this volume information is applied, the volume is no longer fully backward compatible with existing volume types.
Instead of adding EVMS metadata to an existing object, you can tell EVMS to make an object directly available as a volume. This type of volume is known as a compatibility volume. Using this method, the final product is fully backward-compatible with the desired system.
* * *
#  12.2. Example: create an EVMS native volume
This section provides a detailed explanation of how to create an EVMS native volume with EVMS by providing instructions to help you complete the following task.
> **Example 12-1. Create an EVMS native volume**
> Create an EVMS native volume called "Sample Volume" from the region, `/lvm/Sample Container/Region`, you created in [Chapter 9](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#evmscreatereg).
* * *
##  12.2.1. Using the EVMS GUI
Follow these instructions to create an EVMS volume:
  1. Select Actions->Create->EVMS Volume.
  2. Choose `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  3. Type `**Sample Volume**` in the name field.
  4. Click Create.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create an EVMS volume from the GUI context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Available Options tab, right click `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  2. Click Create EVMS Volume...
  3. Continue beginning with step 3 of the GUI instructions.


* * *
##  12.2.2. Using Ncurses
To create a volume, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Create->EVMS Volume.
  2. Enter `**Sample Volume**` at the "name" prompt. Press **Enter**.
  3. Activate Create.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create an EVMS volume from the context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Available Objects view, press **Enter** on `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  2. Activate the Create EVMS Volume menu item.
  3. Continue beginning with step 3 of the Ncurses instructions.


* * *
##  12.2.3. Using the CLI
To create a volume, use the **Create** command. The arguments the **Create** command accepts vary depending on what is being created. In the case of the example, the first argument is the key word `volume` that specifies what is being created. The second argument is the object being made into a volume, in this case `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`. The third argument is type specific for an EVMS volume, `Name=`, followed by what you want to call the volume, in this case `Sample Volume`. The following command creates the volume from the example.
```
Create: Volume, "lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region", Name="Sample Volume"
```

---
* * *
#  12.3. Example: create a compatibility volume
This section provides a detailed explanation of how to create a compatibility volume with EVMS by providing instructions to help you complete the following task.
> **Example 12-2. Create a compatibility volume**
> Create a compatibility volume called "Sample Volume" from the region, `/lvm/Sample Container/Region`, you created in [Chapter 9](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#evmscreatereg).
* * *
##  12.3.1. Using the GUI
To create a compatibility volume, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Create->Compatibility Volume.
  2. Choose the region `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region` from the list.
  3. Click the Create button.
  4. Click the Volume tab in the GUI to see a volume named `/dev/evms/lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`. This volume is your compatibility volume.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create a compatibility volume from the GUI context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Available Objects tab, right click `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  2. Click Create Compatibility Volume...
  3. Continue beginning with step 3 of the GUI instructions.


* * *
##  12.3.2. Using Ncurses
To create a compatibility volume, follow these steps:
  1. Select Actions->Create->Compatibility Volume.
  2. Choose the region `lvm/Sample Container/Storage Region` from the list..
  3. Activate Create.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create a compatibility volume from the context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Available Objects view, press **Enter** on `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`.
  2. Activate the Create Compatibility Volume menu item.
  3. Continue beginning with step 3 of the Ncurses instructions.


* * *
##  12.3.3. Using the CLI
To create a volume, use the **Create** command. The arguments the **Create** command accepts vary depending on what is being created. In the case of the example, the first argument is the key word `volume` that specifies what is being created. The second argument is the object being made into a volume, in this case `lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region`. The third argument, `compatibility`, indicates that this is a compatibility volume and should be named as such.
```
Create:Volume,"lvm/Sample Container/Sample Region",compatibility
```

---
* * *
#  Chapter 13. FSIMs and file system operations
This chapter discusses the seven File System Interface Modules (FSIMs) shipped with EVMS, and then provides examples of adding file systems and coordinating file system checks with the FSIMs.
* * *
#  13.1. The FSIMs supported by EVMS
EVMS currently ships with seven FSIMs. These file system modules allow EVMS to interact with file system utilities such as **mkfs** and **fsck**. Additionally, the FSIMs ensure that EVMS safely performs operations, such as expanding and shrinking file systems, by coordinating these actions with the file system.
You can invoke operations such as **mkfs** and **fsck** through the various EVMS user interfaces. Any actions you initiate through an FSIM are not saved to disk until the changes are saved in the user interface. Later in this chapter we provide examples of creating a new file system and coordinating file system checks through the EVMS GUI, Ncurses, and command-line interfaces.
The FSIMs supported by EVMS are:
  * JFS
  * XFS
  * ReiserFS
  * Ext2/3
  * SWAPFS
  * OpenGFS
  * NTFS


* * *
##  13.1.1. JFS
The JFS module supports the IBM journaling file system (JFS). Current support includes **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , **fsck** , and online file system expansion. You must have at least version 1.0.9 of the JFS utilities for your system to work with this EVMS FSIM. You can download the latest utilities from the
For more information on the JFS FSIM, refer to [Appendix F](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#jfsfsim).
* * *
##  13.1.2. XFS
The XFS FSIM supports the XFS file system from SGI. Command support includes **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , **fsck** , and online expansion. Use version 1.2 or higher, which you can download from
For more information on the XFS FSIM, refer to [Appendix G](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#xfsfsim).
* * *
##  13.1.3. ReiserFS
The ReiserFS module supports the ReiserFS journaling file system. This module supports **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , **fsck** , online and offline expansion and offline shrinkage. You need version 3.x.1a or higher of the ReiserFS utilities for use with the EVMS FSIM modules. You can download the ReiserFS utilities from
For more information on the ReiserFS FSIM, refer to [Appendix H](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#reiserfsim).
* * *
##  13.1.4. Ext2/3
The EXT2/EXT3 FSIM supports both the ext2 and ext3 file system formats. The FSIM supports **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , **fsck** , and offline shrinkage and expansion.
For more information on the Ext2/3 FSIM, refer to [Appendix I](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#ext23fsim).
* * *
##  13.1.5. SWAPFS
The SWAPFS FSIM supports Linux swap devices. The FSIM lets you create and delete swap devices, and supports **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , shrinkage and expansion. Currently, you are responsible for issuing the **swapon** and **swapoff** commands either in the startup scripts or manually. You can resize swap device with the SWAPFS FSIM as long as the device is not in use.
* * *
##  13.1.6. OpenGFS
The OpenGFS module supports the OpenGFS clustered journaling file system. This module supports **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , **fsck** , and online expansion. You need the OpenGFS utilities for use with the EVMS FSIM module. You can download the OpenGFS utilities from the
For more information on the OpenGFS FSIM, refer to [Appendix J](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#gfsfsim).
* * *
##  13.1.7. NTFS
The NTFS FSIM supports the NTFS file system format. The FSIM supports **mkfs** , **unmkfs** , and offline shrinkage and expansion. It also has support for running the **ntfsfix** and **netfsclone** from the **ntfsprogs** utilities. You can download the **ntfsprogs** utilities from the
For more information on the NTFS FSIM, refer to [Appendix K](https://tldp.org/LDP/EVMSUG/html/EVMSUG.html#ntfsfsim).
* * *
#  13.2. Example: add a file system to a volume
After you have made an EVMS or compatibility volume, add a file system to the volume before mounting it. You can add a file system to a volume through the EVMS interface of your choice.
> **Example 13-1. Add a JFS File System to a Volume**
> This example creates a new JFS file system, named `jfs_vol`, on volume `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
* * *
##  13.2.1. Using the EVMS GUI
Follow these steps to create a JFS file system with the EVMS GUI:
  1. Select Actions->File Systems->Make.
  2. Select JFS File System Interface Module.
  3. Click Next.
  4. Select /dev/evms/my_vol.
  5. Click Next.
  6. Type `**jfs_vol**` in the "Volume Label" field. Customize any other options you are interested in.
  7. Click Make.
  8. The operation is completed when you save.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create a file system with the GUI context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Volumes tab, right click `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
  2. Click Make Filesystem...
  3. Continue creating the file system beginning with step 2 of the GUI instructions. You can skip steps 4 and 5 of the GUI instructions.


* * *
##  13.2.2. Using Ncurses
Follow these steps to create a JFS file system with Ncurses:
  1. Select Actions->File Systems->Make.
  2. Select JFS File System Interface Module.
  3. Activate Next.
  4. Select `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
  5. Activate Next.
  6. Scroll down using the **down** arrow until Volume Label is highlighted.
  7. Press **Spacebar**.
  8. At the "::" prompt enter `**jfs_vol**`.
  9. Press **Enter**.
  10. Activate Make.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to create a file system with the context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Volumes view, press **Enter** on `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
  2. Activate the Make Filesystem menu item.
  3. Continue creating the file system beginning with step 2 of the Ncurses instructions.


* * *
##  13.2.3. Using the CLI
Use the **mkfs** command to create the new file system. The arguments to **mkfs** include the FSIM type (in our example, JFS), followed by any option pairs, and then the volume name. The command to accomplish this is:
```
mkfs: JFS={vollabel=jfs_vol}, /dev/evms/my_vol
```

---
The command is completed upon saving.
If you are interested in other options that **mkfs** can use, look at the results of the following query:
```
query: plugins, plugin=JFS, list options
```

---
* * *
#  13.3. Example: check a file system
You can also coordinate file system checks from the EVMS user interfaces.
> **Example 13-2. Check a JFS File System**
> This example shows how to perform a file system check on a JFS file system, named `jfs_vol`, on volume `/dev/evms/my_vol`, with verbose output.
* * *
##  13.3.1. Using the EVMS GUI
Follow these steps to check a JFS file system with the EVMS GUI:
  1. Select Actions->File Systems->Check/Repair.
  2. Select /dev/evms/my_vol.
  3. Click Next.
  4. Click the **Yes** button by Verbose Output. Customize any other options you are interested in.
  5. Click Check.
  6. The operation is completed when you save.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to check a file system with the GUI context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Volumes tab, right click `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
  2. Click `Check/Repair File System...`
  3. Continue checking the file system beginning with step 3 of the GUI instructions.


* * *
##  13.3.2. Using Ncurses
Follow these steps to check a JFS file system with Ncurses:
  1. Select Actions->File System->Check/Repair
  2. Select ` /dev/evms/my_vol`.
  3. Activate Next.
  4. Scroll down using the **down** arrow until Verbose Output is highlighted.
  5. Press **Spacebar** to change Verbose Output to **Yes**.
  6. Activate Check.


Alternatively, you can perform some of the steps to check a file system with the context sensitive menu:
  1. From the Volumes view, press **Enter** on `/dev/evms/my_vol`.
  2. Activate the Check/Repair File System menu item.
  3. Continue checking the file system beginning with step 3 of the Ncurses instructions.


* * *
##  13.3.3. Using the CLI
The CLI **check** command takes a volume name and options as input. The command to check the file system on `/dev/evms/my_vol` is the following:
```
check: /dev/evms/my_vol, verbose=TRUE
```

---
Currently, a query command for viewing additional options is not available.
* * *
#  Chapter 14. Clustering operations
This chapter discusses how to configure cluster storage containers (referred to throughout this chapter as "cluster containers"), a feature provided by the EVMS Cluster Segment Manager (CSM).
Disks that are physically accessible from all of the nodes of the cluster can be grouped together as a single manageable entity. EVMS storage objects can then be created using storage from these containers.
Ownership is assigned to a container to make the container either private or shared. A container that is owned by any one node of the cluster is called a private container. EVMS storage objects and storage volumes created using space from a private container are accessible from only the owning node.
A container that is owned by all the nodes in a cluster is called a shared container. EVMS storage objects and storage volumes created using space from a shared container are accessible from all nodes of the cluster simultaneously.
EVMS provides the tools to convert a private container to a shared container, and a shared container to a private container. EVMS also provides the flexibility to change the ownership of a private container from one cluster node to another cluster node.
* * *
#  14.1. Rules and restrictions for creating cluster containers
Note the following rules and limitations for creating cluster containers:
  * Do not assign non-shared disks to a cluster container.
  * Storage objects and volumes created on a cluster container must not span across multiple cluster containers. The EVMS Engine enforces this rule by disallowing such configurations.
  * Do not assign RAID-1, RAID-5, BBR, or snapshotting to storage objects on a shared cluster container. These plug-ins can be used on private cluster containers.


* * *
#  14.2. Example: create a private cluster container
This section tells how to create a sample private container and provides instructions for completing the following task:
