##  4.3. Adding the LFS User
When logged in as user _root_ , making a single mistake can damage or destroy a system. Therefore, we recommend building the packages in this chapter as an unprivileged user. You could use your own user name, but to make it easier to set up a clean working environment, create a new user called _lfs_ as a member of a new group (also named _lfs_) and use this user during the installation process. As _root_ , issue the following commands to add the new user:
```
`groupadd lfs
useradd -s /bin/bash -g lfs -m -k /dev/null lfs`
```

The meaning of the command line options:

_`-s /bin/bash`_

This makes **bash** the default shell for user _lfs_.

_`-g lfs`_

This option adds user _lfs_ to group _lfs_.

_`-m`_

This creates a home directory for _lfs_.

_`-k /dev/null`_

This parameter prevents possible copying of files from a skeleton directory (default is `/etc/skel`) by changing the input location to the special null device.

_`lfs`_

This is the actual name for the created group and user.
To log in as _lfs_ (as opposed to switching to user _lfs_ when logged in as _root_ , which does not require the _lfs_ user to have a password), give _lfs_ a password:
```
`passwd lfs`
```

Grant _lfs_ full access to `$LFS/tools` by making _lfs_ the directory owner:
```
`chown -v lfs $LFS/tools`
```

If a separate working directory was created as suggested, give user _lfs_ ownership of this directory:
```
`chown -v lfs $LFS/sources`
```

Next, login as user _lfs_. This can be done via a virtual console, through a display manager, or with the following substitute user command:
```
`su - lfs`
```

The “ _`-`_ ” instructs **su** to start a login shell as opposed to a non-login shell. The difference between these two types of shells can be found in detail in `bash(1)` and **info bash**.
