##  5.2. Toolchain Technical Notes
This section explains some of the rationale and technical details behind the overall build method. It is not essential to immediately understand everything in this section. Most of this information will be clearer after performing an actual build. This section can be referred back to at any time during the process.
The overall goal of [Chapter 5](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-temporary-tools) is to provide a temporary environment that can be chrooted into and from which can be produced a clean, trouble-free build of the target LFS system in [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system). Along the way, we separate the new system from the host system as much as possible, and in doing so, build a self-contained and self-hosted toolchain. It should be noted that the build process has been designed to minimize the risks for new readers and provide maximum educational value at the same time.
###  Important
Before continuing, be aware of the name of the working platform, often referred to as the target triplet. Many times, the target triplet will probably be _i686-pc-linux-gnu_. A simple way to determine the name of the target triplet is to run the **config.guess** script that comes with the source for many packages. Unpack the Binutils sources and run the script: **`./config.guess`** and note the output.
Also be aware of the name of the platform's dynamic linker, often referred to as the dynamic loader (not to be confused with the standard linker **ld** that is part of Binutils). The dynamic linker provided by Glibc finds and loads the shared libraries needed by a program, prepares the program to run, and then runs it. The name of the dynamic linker will usually be `ld-linux.so.2`. On platforms that are less prevalent, the name might be `ld.so.1`, and newer 64 bit platforms might be named something else entirely. The name of the platform's dynamic linker can be determined by looking in the `/lib` directory on the host system. A sure-fire way to determine the name is to inspect a random binary from the host system by running: **`readelf -l <name of binary> | grep interpreter`** and noting the output. The authoritative reference covering all platforms is in the `shlib-versions` file in the root of the Glibc source tree.
Some key technical points of how the [Chapter 5](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-temporary-tools) build method works:
  * The process is similar in principle to cross-compiling, whereby tools installed in the same prefix work in cooperation, and thus utilize a little GNU “magic”
  * Careful manipulation of the standard linker's library search path ensures programs are linked only against chosen libraries
  * Careful manipulation of **gcc** 's `specs` file tells the compiler which target dynamic linker will be used


Binutils is installed first because the **configure** runs of both GCC and Glibc perform various feature tests on the assembler and linker to determine which software features to enable or disable. This is more important than one might first realize. An incorrectly configured GCC or Glibc can result in a subtly broken toolchain, where the impact of such breakage might not show up until near the end of the build of an entire distribution. A test suite failure will usually highlight this error before too much additional work is performed.
Binutils installs its assembler and linker in two locations, `/tools/bin` and `/tools/$TARGET_TRIPLET/bin`. The tools in one location are hard linked to the other. An important facet of the linker is its library search order. Detailed information can be obtained from **ld** by passing it the _`--verbose`_ flag. For example, an **`ld --verbose | grep SEARCH`** will illustrate the current search paths and their order. It shows which files are linked by **ld** by compiling a dummy program and passing the _`--verbose`_ switch to the linker. For example, **`gcc dummy.c -Wl,--verbose 2 >&1 | grep succeeded`** will show all the files successfully opened during the linking.
The next package installed is GCC. An example of what can be seen during its run of **configure** is:
```
`checking what assembler to use...
        /tools/i686-pc-linux-gnu/bin/as
checking what linker to use... /tools/i686-pc-linux-gnu/bin/ld`
```

This is important for the reasons mentioned above. It also demonstrates that GCC's configure script does not search the PATH directories to find which tools to use. However, during the actual operation of **gcc** itself, the same search paths are not necessarily used. To find out which standard linker **gcc** will use, run: **`gcc -print-prog-name=ld`**.
Detailed information can be obtained from **gcc** by passing it the _`-v`_ command line option while compiling a dummy program. For example, **`gcc -v dummy.c`** will show detailed information about the preprocessor, compilation, and assembly stages, including **gcc** 's included search paths and their order.
The next package installed is Glibc. The most important considerations for building Glibc are the compiler, binary tools, and kernel headers. The compiler is generally not an issue since Glibc will always use the **gcc** found in a `PATH` directory. The binary tools and kernel headers can be a bit more complicated. Therefore, take no risks and use the available configure switches to enforce the correct selections. After the run of **configure** , check the contents of the `config.make` file in the `glibc-build` directory for all important details. Note the use of _`CC="gcc -B/tools/bin/"`_ to control which binary tools are used and the use of the _`-nostdinc`_ and _`-isystem`_ flags to control the compiler's include search path. These items highlight an important aspect of the Glibc package—it is very self-sufficient in terms of its build machinery and generally does not rely on toolchain defaults.
After the Glibc installation, make some adjustments to ensure that searching and linking take place only within the `/tools` prefix. Install an adjusted **ld** , which has a hard-wired search path limited to `/tools/lib`. Then amend **gcc** 's specs file to point to the new dynamic linker in `/tools/lib`. This last step is vital to the whole process. As mentioned above, a hard-wired path to a dynamic linker is embedded into every Executable and Link Format (ELF)-shared executable. This can be inspected by running: **`readelf -l <name of binary> | grep interpreter`**. Amending gcc's specs file ensures that every program compiled from here through the end of this chapter will use the new dynamic linker in `/tools/lib`.
The need to use the new dynamic linker is also the reason why the Specs patch is applied for the second pass of GCC. Failure to do so will result in the GCC programs themselves having the name of the dynamic linker from the host system's `/lib` directory embedded into them, which would defeat the goal of getting away from the host.
During the second pass of Binutils, we are able to utilize the _`--with-lib-path`_ configure switch to control **ld** 's library search path. From this point onwards, the core toolchain is self-contained and self-hosted. The remainder of the [Chapter 5](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-temporary-tools) packages all build against the new Glibc in `/tools`.
Upon entering the chroot environment in [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system), the first major package to be installed is Glibc, due to its self-sufficient nature mentioned above. Once this Glibc is installed into `/usr`, perform a quick changeover of the toolchain defaults, then proceed in building the rest of the target LFS system.
