##  5.3. Binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2 - Pass 1
The Binutils package contains a linker, an assembler, and other tools for handling object files.
**Approximate build time:** 1.0 SBU
**Required disk space:** 179 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Bison, Coreutils, Diffutils, Flex, GCC, Gettext, Glibc, Grep, M4, Make, Perl, Sed, and Texinfo
###  5.3.1. Installation of Binutils
It is important that Binutils be the first package compiled because both Glibc and GCC perform various tests on the available linker and assembler to determine which of their own features to enable.
This package is known to have issues when its default optimization flags (including the _`-march`_ and _`-mcpu`_ options) are changed. If any environment variables that override default optimizations have been defined, such as `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`, unset them when building Binutils.
If you are building from a host running Gcc-4 or later, it is necessary to patch the first build of this version of Binutils so that it can be compiled by the host system.
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2-gcc4-1.patch`
```

The Binutils documentation recommends building Binutils outside of the source directory in a dedicated build directory:
```
`mkdir -v ../binutils-build
cd ../binutils-build`
```

###  Note
In order for the SBU values listed in the rest of the book to be of any use, measure the time it takes to build this package from the configuration, up to and including the first install. To achieve this easily, wrap the three commands in a **time** command like this: **`time { ./configure ... && make && make install; }`**.
Now prepare Binutils for compilation:
```
`../binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2/configure --prefix=/tools --disable-nls`
```

The meaning of the configure options:

_`--prefix=/tools`_

This tells the configure script to prepare to install the Binutils programs in the `/tools` directory.

_`--disable-nls`_

This disables internationalization as i18n is not needed for the temporary tools.
Continue with compiling the package:
```
`make`
```

Compilation is now complete. Ordinarily we would now run the test suite, but at this early stage the test suite framework (Tcl, Expect, and DejaGNU) is not yet in place. The benefits of running the tests at this point are minimal since the programs from this first pass will soon be replaced by those from the second.
Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

Next, prepare the linker for the “Adjusting” phase later on:
```
`make -C ld clean
make -C ld LIB_PATH=/tools/lib`
```

The meaning of the make parameters:

_`-C ld clean`_

This tells the make program to remove all compiled files in the `ld` subdirectory.

_`-C ld LIB_PATH=/tools/lib`_

This option rebuilds everything in the `ld` subdirectory. Specifying the `LIB_PATH` Makefile variable on the command line allows us to override the default value and point it to the temporary tools location. The value of this variable specifies the linker's default library search path. This preparation is used later in the chapter.
###  Warning
_Do not_ remove the Binutils build and source directories yet. These will be needed again in their current state later in this chapter.
Details on this package are located in [Section 6.13.2, “Contents of Binutils.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-binutils "6.13.2. Contents of Binutils")
