## Programmatically identify a SQL managed instance
The following table shows several properties, accessible through Transact-SQL, that you can use to detect that your application is working with SQL Managed Instance and retrieve important properties.
Expand table
Property | Value | Comment
---|---|---
`@@VERSION` | Microsoft SQL Azure (RTM) - 12.0.2000.8 2018-03-07 Copyright (C) 2018 Microsoft Corporation. | This value is same as in SQL Database. This **does not** indicate SQL engine version 12 (SQL Server 2014). SQL Managed Instance always runs the latest stable SQL engine version, which is equal to or higher than latest available RTM version of SQL Server.
`SERVERPROPERTY('Edition')` | SQL Azure | This value is same as in SQL Database.
`SERVERPROPERTY('EngineEdition')` | 8 | This value uniquely identifies a managed instance.
`@@SERVERNAME`, `SERVERPROPERTY('ServerName')` | Full instance DNS name in the following format:`<instanceName>`.`<dnsPrefix>`.database.windows.net, where `<instanceName>` is name provided by the customer, while `<dnsPrefix>` is autogenerated part of the name guaranteeing global DNS name uniqueness ("wcus17662feb9ce98", for example) | Example: my-managed-instance.wcus17662feb9ce98.database.windows.net
`SERVERPROPERTY('ProductUpdateType')` | CU, or Continuous | Update cadence the instance follows. Corresponds to the Azure SQL Managed Instance [update policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/managed-instance/update-policy?view=azuresql).

CU = Updates are deployed via cumulative updates (CUs) for the corresponding major SQL Server release (**SQL Server 2022** , or **SQL Server 2025** update policy).
Continuous = New features are brought to Azure SQL Managed Instance as soon as they're available, independent of the SQL Server release cadence (**Always-up-to-date** update policy).
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/managed-instance/sql-managed-instance-paas-overview?view=azuresql#related-content)
