#  3.3. The `/etc` directory
The `/etc` maintains a lot of files. Some of them are described below. For others, you should determine which program they belong to and read the manual page for that program. Many networking configuration files are in `/etc` as well, and are described in the _Networking Administrators' Guide_.

**`/etc/rc` or `/etc/rc.d` or `/etc/rc?.d`**

Scripts or directories of scripts to run at startup or when changing the run level. See [Section 2.3.1](https://tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/sag.html#INIT) for further information.

**`/etc/passwd`**

The user database, with fields giving the username, real name, home directory, and other information about each user. The format is documented in the **passwd** manual page.

**`/etc/shadow`**

`/etc/shadow` is an encrypted file the holds user passwords.

**`/etc/fdprm`**

Floppy disk parameter table. Describes what different floppy disk formats look like. Used by **setfdprm** . See the **setfdprm** manual page for more information.

**`/etc/fstab`**

Lists the filesystems mounted automatically at startup by the **mount -a** command (in `/etc/rc` or equivalent startup file). Under Linux, also contains information about swap areas used automatically by **swapon -a** . See [Section 5.10.7](https://tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/sag.html#MOUNT-AND-UMOUNT) and the **mount** manual page for more information. Also `fstab` usually has its own manual page in section 5.

**`/etc/group`**

Similar to `/etc/passwd`, but describes groups instead of users. See the `group` manual page in section 5 for more information.

**`/etc/inittab`**

Configuration file for **init**.

**`/etc/issue`**

Output by **getty** before the login prompt. Usually contains a short description or welcoming message to the system. The contents are up to the system administrator.

**`/etc/magic`**

The configuration file for **file**. Contains the descriptions of various file formats based on which **file** guesses the type of the file. See the `magic` and **file** manual pages for more information.

**`/etc/motd`**

The message of the day, automatically output after a successful login. Contents are up to the system administrator. Often used for getting information to every user, such as warnings about planned downtimes.

**`/etc/mtab`**

List of currently mounted filesystems. Initially set up by the bootup scripts, and updated automatically by the **mount** command. Used when a list of mounted filesystems is needed, e.g., by the **df** command.

**`/etc/login.defs`**

Configuration file for the **login** command. The `login.defs` file usually has a manual page in section 5.

**`/etc/printcap`**

Like `/etc/termcap` _`/etc/printcap` , but intended for printers. However it uses different syntax. The `printcap` has a manual page in section 5. _

**`/etc/profile` , `/etc/bash.rc`, `/etc/csh.cshrc`**

Files executed at login or startup time by the Bourne, BASH , or C shells. These allow the system administrator to set global defaults for all users. Users can also create individual copies of these in their home directory to personalize their environment. See the manual pages for the respective shells.

**`/etc/securetty`**

Identifies secure terminals, i.e., the terminals from which root is allowed to log in. Typically only the virtual consoles are listed, so that it becomes impossible (or at least harder) to gain superuser privileges by breaking into a system over a modem or a network. Do not allow root logins over a network. Prefer to log in as an unprivileged user and use **su** or **sudo** to gain root privileges.

**`/etc/shells`**

Lists trusted shells. The **chsh** command allows users to change their login shell only to shells listed in this file. **ftpd** , is the server process that provides FTP services for a machine, will check that the user's shell is listed in `/etc/shells` and will not let people log in unless the shell is listed there.

**`/etc/termcap`**

The terminal capability database. Describes by what ``escape sequences'' various terminals can be controlled. Programs are written so that instead of directly outputting an escape sequence that only works on a particular brand of terminal, they look up the correct sequence to do whatever it is they want to do in `/etc/termcap`. As a result most programs work with most kinds of terminals. See the `termcap`, curs_termcap, and `terminfo` manual pages for more information.
* * *
