#  3.6. The `/var` filesystem
The `/var` contains data that is changed when the system is running normally. It is specific for each system, i.e., not shared over the network with other computers.

**`/var/cache/man`**

A cache for man pages that are formatted on demand. The source for manual pages is usually stored in `/usr/share/man/man?/` (where ? is the manual section. See the manual page for **man** in section 7); some manual pages might come with a pre-formatted version, which might be stored in `/usr/share/man/cat*` . Other manual pages need to be formatted when they are first viewed; the formatted version is then stored in `/var/cache/man` so that the next person to view the same page won't have to wait for it to be formatted.

**`/var/games`**

Any variable data belonging to games in `/usr` should be placed here. This is in case /usr is mounted read only.

**`/var/lib`**

Files that change while the system is running normally.

**`/var/local`**

Variable data for programs that are installed in `/usr/local` (i.e., programs that have been installed by the system administrator). Note that even locally installed programs should use the other `/var` directories if they are appropriate, e.g., `/var/lock`.

**`/var/lock`**

Lock files. Many programs follow a convention to create a lock file in `/var/lock` to indicate that they are using a particular device or file. Other programs will notice the lock file and won't attempt to use the device or file.

**`/var/log`**

Log files from various programs, especially **login**(`/var/log/wtmp`, which logs all logins and logouts into the system) and **syslog**(`/var/log/messages`, where all kernel and system program message are usually stored). Files in `/var/log` can often grow indefinitely, and may require cleaning at regular intervals.

**`/var/mail`**

This is the FHS approved location for user mailbox files. Depending on how far your distribution has gone towards FHS compliance, these files may still be held in `/var/spool/mail`.

**`/var/run`**

Files that contain information about the system that is valid until the system is next booted. For example, `/var/run/utmp` contains information about people currently logged in.

**`/var/spool`**

Directories for news, printer queues, and other queued work. Each different spool has its own subdirectory below `/var/spool`, e.g., the news spool is in `/var/spool/news` . Note that some installations which are not fully compliant with the latest version of the FHS may have user mailboxes under `/var/spool/mail`.

**`/var/tmp`**

Temporary files that are large or that need to exist for a longer time than what is allowed for `/tmp` . (Although the system administrator might not allow very old files in `/var/tmp` either.)
* * *
