Time zones are best named by the location or by telling the difference between local and universal time. In the US and some other countries, the local time zones have a name and a three letter abbreviation. The abbreviations are not unique, however, and should not be used unless the country is also named. It is better to talk about the local time in, say, Helsinki, than about East European time, since not all countries in Eastern Europe follow the same rules.
Linux has a time zone package that knows about all existing time zones, and that can easily be updated when the rules change. All the system administrator needs to do is to select the appropriate time zone. Also, each user can set his own time zone; this is important since many people work with computers in different countries over the Internet. When the rules for daylight savings time change in your local time zone, make sure you'll upgrade at least that part of your Linux system. Other than setting the system time zone and upgrading the time zone data files, there is little need to bother about time.
* * *
#  14.2. The hardware and software clocks
A personal computer has a battery driven hardware clock. The battery ensures that the clock will work even if the rest of the computer is without electricity. The hardware clock can be set from the BIOS setup screen or from whatever operating system is running.
The Linux kernel keeps track of time independently from the hardware clock. During the boot, Linux sets its own clock to the same time as the hardware clock. After this, both clocks run independently. Linux maintains its own clock because looking at the hardware is slow and complicated.
The kernel clock always shows universal time. This way, the kernel does not need to know about time zones at all. The simplicity results in higher reliability and makes it easier to update the time zone information. Each process handles time zone conversions itself (using standard tools that are part of the time zone package).
The hardware clock can be in local time or in universal time. It is usually better to have it in universal time, because then you don't need to change the hardware clock when daylight savings time begins or ends (UTC does not have DST). Unfortunately, some PC operating systems, including MS-DOS, Windows, and OS/2, assume the hardware clock shows local time. Linux can handle either, but if the hardware clock shows local time, then it must be modified when daylight savings time begins or ends (otherwise it wouldn't show local time).
* * *
#  14.3. Showing and setting time
In Linux, the system time zone is determined by the symbolic link `/etc/localtime`. This link points to a time zone data file that describes the local time zone. The time zone data files are located at either `/usr/lib/zoneinfo` or `/usr/share/zoneinfo` depending on what distribution of Linux you use.
For example, on a SuSE system located in New Jersey the `/etc/localtime` link would point to `/usr/share/zoneinfo/US/Eastern`. On a Debian system the `/etc/localtime` link would point to `/usr/lib/zoneinfo/US/Eastern`.
If you fail to find the `zoneinfo` directory in either the `/usr/lib` or `/usr/share` directories, either do a **find /usr -print | grep zoneinfo** or consult your distribution's documentation.
What happens when you have a users located in a different timezone? A user can change his private time zone by setting the TZ environment variable. If it is unset, the system time zone is assumed. The syntax of the TZ variable is described in the `tzset` manual page.
The **date** command shows the current date and time. For example:
```
`$` `**date**`
`Sun Jul 14 21:53:41 EET DST 1996`
`$`
```

---
That time is Sunday, 14th of July, 1996, at about ten before ten at the evening, in the time zone called ``EET DST'' (which might be East European Daylight Savings Time).**date** can also show the universal time: ```
`$` `**date -u**`
`Sun Jul 14 18:53:42 UTC 1996`
`$`
```

---
**date** is also used to set the kernel's software clock: ```
`#` `**date 07142157**`
`Sun Jul 14 21:57:00 EET DST 1996`
`#` `**date**`
`Sun Jul 14 21:57:02 EET DST 1996`
`#`
```

---
See the**date** manual page for more details; the syntax is a bit arcane. Only root can set the time. While each user can have his own time zone, the clock is the same for everyone.
Beware of the **time** command. This is not used to get the system time. Instead it's used to time how long something takes. Refer the the time man page.
**date** only shows or sets the software clock. The **clock** commands synchronizes the hardware and software clocks. It is used when the system boots, to read the hardware clock and set the software clock. If you need to set both clocks, you first set the software clock with **date** , and then the hardware clock with **clock -w**.
The `-u` option to **clock** tells it that the hardware clock is in universal time. You _must_ use the `-u` option correctly. If you don't, your computer will be quite confused about what the time is.
The clocks should be changed with care. Many parts of a Unix system require the clocks to work correctly. For example, the **cron** daemon runs commands periodically. If you change the clock, it can be confused of whether it needs to run the commands or not. On one early Unix system, someone set the clock twenty years into the future, and **cron** wanted to run all the periodic commands for twenty years all at once. Current versions of **cron** can handle this correctly, but you should still be careful. Big jumps or backward jumps are more dangerous than smaller or forward ones.
* * *
#  14.4. When the clock is wrong
The Linux software clock is not always accurate. It is kept running by a periodic _timer interrupt_ generated by PC hardware. If the system has too many processes running, it may take too long to service the timer interrupt, and the software clock starts slipping behind. The hardware clock runs independently and is usually more accurate. If you boot your computer often (as is the case for most systems that aren't servers), it will usually keep fairly accurate time.
If you need to adjust the hardware clock, it is usually simplest to reboot, go into the BIOS setup screen, and do it from there. This avoids all trouble that changing system time might cause. If doing it via BIOS is not an option, set the new time with **date** and **clock** (in that order), but be prepared to reboot, if some part of the system starts acting funny.
Another method would be to use either **hwclock -w** or **hwclock --systohc** to sync the hardware clock to the software clock. If you want to sync your software clock to your hardware clock then you would use **hwclock -s** or **hwclock --hwtosys**. For more information on this command read **man hwclock**.
* * *
#  14.5. NTP - Network Time Protocol
A networked computer (even if just over a modem) can check its own clock automatically by comparing it to the time on another computer known to keep accurate time. Network Time Protocol (or NTP) does exactly that. It is a method of verifying and correcting your computer's time by synchronizing it with a another system. With NTP your system's time can be maintained to within milliseconds of Coordinated Universal Time. Visit
For more casual Linux users, this is just a nice luxury. At my home all our clocks are set based upon what my Linux system says the time is. For larger organizations this "luxury" can become essential. Being able to search log files for events based upon time can make life a lot easier and take a lot of the "guess work" out of debugging.
Another example of how important NTP can be is with a SAN. Some SAN's require NTP be configured and running properly to allow for proper synchronization over filesystem usage, and proper timestamp control. Some SANs (and some applications) can become confused when dealing with files that have timestamps that are in the future.
Most Linux distributions come with a NTP package of some kind, either a .deb or .rpm package. You can use that to install NTP, or you can download the source files from
* * *
#  14.6. Basic NTP configuration
The NTP program is configured using either the `/etc/ntp.conf ` or `/etc/xntp.conf` file depending on what distribution of Linux you have. I won't go into too much detail on how to configure NTP. Instead I'll just cover the basics.
An example of a basic ntp.conf file would look like:
```
`# --- GENERAL CONFIGURATION ---
server  aaa.bbb.ccc.ddd
server  127.127.1.0
fudge   127.127.1.0 stratum 10
