## [Introduction](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#introduction)
Many web applications provide a way for their users to authenticate with the application and "login". Implementing this feature in web applications can be a complex and potentially risky endeavor. For this reason, Laravel strives to give you the tools you need to implement authentication quickly, securely, and easily.
At its core, Laravel's authentication facilities are made up of "guards" and "providers". Guards define how users are authenticated for each request. For example, Laravel ships with a `session` guard which maintains state using session storage and cookies.
Providers define how users are retrieved from your persistent storage. Laravel ships with support for retrieving users using [Eloquent](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/eloquent) and the database query builder. However, you are free to define additional providers as needed for your application.
Your application's authentication configuration file is located at `config/auth.php`. This file contains several well-documented options for tweaking the behavior of Laravel's authentication services.
Guards and providers should not be confused with "roles" and "permissions". To learn more about authorizing user actions via permissions, please refer to the [authorization](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authorization) documentation.
### [Starter Kits](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#starter-kits)
Want to get started fast? Install a [Laravel application starter kit](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/starter-kits) in a fresh Laravel application. After migrating your database, navigate your browser to `/register` or any other URL that is assigned to your application. The starter kits will take care of scaffolding your entire authentication system!
**Even if you choose not to use a starter kit in your final Laravel application, installing a[starter kit](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/starter-kits) can be a wonderful opportunity to learn how to implement all of Laravel's authentication functionality in an actual Laravel project.** Since the Laravel starter kits contain authentication controllers, routes, and views for you, you can examine the code within these files to learn how Laravel's authentication features may be implemented.
### [Database Considerations](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#introduction-database-considerations)
By default, Laravel includes an `App\Models\User` [Eloquent model](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/eloquent) in your `app/Models` directory. This model may be used with the default Eloquent authentication driver.
If your application is not using Eloquent, you may use the `database` authentication provider which uses the Laravel query builder. If your application is using MongoDB, check out MongoDB's official
When building the database schema for the `App\Models\User` model, make sure the password column is at least 60 characters in length. Of course, the `users` table migration that is included in new Laravel applications already creates a column that exceeds this length.
Also, you should verify that your `users` (or equivalent) table contains a nullable, string `remember_token` column of 100 characters. This column will be used to store a token for users that select the "remember me" option when logging into your application. Again, the default `users` table migration that is included in new Laravel applications already contains this column.
### [Ecosystem Overview](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#ecosystem-overview)
Laravel offers several packages related to authentication. Before continuing, we'll review the general authentication ecosystem in Laravel and discuss each package's intended purpose.
First, consider how authentication works. When using a web browser, a user will provide their username and password via a login form. If these credentials are correct, the application will store information about the authenticated user in the user's [session](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/session). A cookie issued to the browser contains the session ID so that subsequent requests to the application can associate the user with the correct session. After the session cookie is received, the application will retrieve the session data based on the session ID, note that the authentication information has been stored in the session, and will consider the user as "authenticated".
When a remote service needs to authenticate to access an API, cookies are not typically used for authentication because there is no web browser. Instead, the remote service sends an API token to the API on each request. The application may validate the incoming token against a table of valid API tokens and "authenticate" the request as being performed by the user associated with that API token.
#### [Laravel's Built-in Browser Authentication Services](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#laravels-built-in-browser-authentication-services)
Laravel includes built-in authentication and session services which are typically accessed via the `Auth` and `Session` facades. These features provide cookie-based authentication for requests that are initiated from web browsers. They provide methods that allow you to verify a user's credentials and authenticate the user. In addition, these services will automatically store the proper authentication data in the user's session and issue the user's session cookie. A discussion of how to use these services is contained within this documentation.
**Application Starter Kits**
As discussed in this documentation, you can interact with these authentication services manually to build your application's own authentication layer. However, to help you get started more quickly, we have released [free starter kits](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/starter-kits) that provide robust, modern scaffolding of the entire authentication layer.
#### [Laravel's API Authentication Services](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#laravels-api-authentication-services)
Laravel provides two optional packages to assist you in managing API tokens and authenticating requests made with API tokens: [Passport](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/passport) and [Sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/sanctum). Please note that these libraries and Laravel's built-in cookie based authentication libraries are not mutually exclusive. These libraries primarily focus on API token authentication while the built-in authentication services focus on cookie based browser authentication. Many applications will use both Laravel's built-in cookie based authentication services and one of Laravel's API authentication packages.
**Passport**
Passport is an OAuth2 authentication provider, offering a variety of OAuth2 "grant types" which allow you to issue various types of tokens. In general, this is a robust and complex package for API authentication. However, most applications do not require the complex features offered by the OAuth2 spec, which can be confusing for both users and developers. In addition, developers have been historically confused about how to authenticate SPA applications or mobile applications using OAuth2 authentication providers like Passport.
**Sanctum**
In response to the complexity of OAuth2 and developer confusion, we set out to build a simpler, more streamlined authentication package that could handle both first-party web requests from a web browser and API requests via tokens. This goal was realized with the release of [Laravel Sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/sanctum), which should be considered the preferred and recommended authentication package for applications that will be offering a first-party web UI in addition to an API, or will be powered by a single-page application (SPA) that exists separately from the backend Laravel application, or applications that offer a mobile client.
Laravel Sanctum is a hybrid web / API authentication package that can manage your application's entire authentication process. This is possible because when Sanctum based applications receive a request, Sanctum will first determine if the request includes a session cookie that references an authenticated session. Sanctum accomplishes this by calling Laravel's built-in authentication services which we discussed earlier. If the request is not being authenticated via a session cookie, Sanctum will inspect the request for an API token. If an API token is present, Sanctum will authenticate the request using that token. To learn more about this process, please consult Sanctum's ["how it works"](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/sanctum#how-it-works) documentation.
#### [Summary and Choosing Your Stack](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#summary-choosing-your-stack)
In summary, if your application will be accessed using a browser and you are building a monolithic Laravel application, your application will use Laravel's built-in authentication services.
Next, if your application offers an API that will be consumed by third parties, you will choose between [Passport](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/passport) or [Sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/sanctum) to provide API token authentication for your application. In general, Sanctum should be preferred when possible since it is a simple, complete solution for API authentication, SPA authentication, and mobile authentication, including support for "scopes" or "abilities".
If you are building a single-page application (SPA) that will be powered by a Laravel backend, you should use [Laravel Sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/sanctum). When using Sanctum, you will either need to [manually implement your own backend authentication routes](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/authentication#authenticating-users) or utilize [Laravel Fortify](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/fortify) as a headless authentication backend service that provides routes and controllers for features such as registration, password reset, email verification, and more.
Passport may be chosen when your application absolutely needs all of the features provided by the OAuth2 specification.
And, if you would like to get started quickly, we are pleased to recommend [our application starter kits](https://laravel.com/docs/12.x/starter-kits) as a quick way to start a new Laravel application that already uses our preferred authentication stack of Laravel's built-in authentication services.
