##  5.6. Glibc-2.3.4
The Glibc package contains the main C library. This library provides the basic routines for allocating memory, searching directories, opening and closing files, reading and writing files, string handling, pattern matching, arithmetic, and so on.
**Approximate build time:** 11.8 SBU
**Required disk space:** 454 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, Gawk, GCC, Gettext, Grep, Make, Perl, Sed, and Texinfo
###  5.6.1. Installation of Glibc
This package is known to have issues when its default optimization flags (including the _`-march`_ and _`-mcpu`_ options) are changed. If any environment variables that override default optimizations have been defined, such as `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`, unset them when building Glibc.
It should be noted that compiling Glibc in any way other than the method suggested in this book puts the stability of the system at risk.
Glibc has two tests which fail when the running kernel is 2.6.11 or later. The problem has been determined to be with the tests themselves, not with the C library or the kernel. If you plan to run the testsuite apply this patch:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../glibc-2.3.4-fix_test-1.patch`
```

The Glibc documentation recommends building Glibc outside of the source directory in a dedicated build directory:
```
`mkdir -v ../glibc-build
cd ../glibc-build`
```

Next, prepare Glibc for compilation:
```
`../glibc-2.3.4/configure --prefix=/tools \
    --disable-profile --enable-add-ons \
    --enable-kernel=2.6.0 --with-binutils=/tools/bin \
    --without-gd --with-headers=/tools/include \
    --without-selinux`
```

The meaning of the configure options:

_`--disable-profile`_

This builds the libraries without profiling information. Omit this option if profiling on the temporary tools is necessary.

_`--enable-add-ons`_

This tells Glibc to use the NPTL add-on as its threading library.

_`--enable-kernel=2.6.0`_

This tells Glibc to compile the library with support for 2.6.x Linux kernels.

_`--with-binutils=/tools/bin`_

While not required, this switch ensures that there are no errors pertaining to which Binutils programs get used during the Glibc build.

_`--without-gd`_

This prevents the build of the **memusagestat** program, which insists on linking against the host's libraries (libgd, libpng, libz, etc.).

_`--with-headers=/tools/include`_

This tells Glibc to compile itself against the headers recently installed to the tools directory, so that it knows exactly what features the kernel has and can optimize itself accordingly.

_`--without-selinux`_

When building from hosts that include SELinux functionality (e.g. Fedora Core 3), Glibc will build with support for SELinux. As the LFS tools environment does not contain support for SELinux, a Glibc compiled with such support will fail to operate correctly.
During this stage the following warning might appear:
> ```
`configure: WARNING:
*** These auxiliary programs are missing or
*** incompatible versions: msgfmt
*** some features will be disabled.
*** Check the INSTALL file for required versions.`
```

The missing or incompatible **msgfmt** program is generally harmless, but it can sometimes cause issues when running the test suite. This **msgfmt** program is part of the Gettext package which the host distribution should provide. If **msgfmt** is present but deemed incompatible, upgrade the host system's Gettext package or continue without it and see if the test suite runs without problems regardless.
Compile the package:
```
`make`
```

Compilation is now complete. As mentioned earlier, running the test suites for the temporary tools installed in this chapter is not mandatory. To run the Glibc test suite (if desired), the following command will do so:
```
`make check`
```

For a discussion of test failures that are of particular importance, please see [Section 6.11, “Glibc-2.3.4.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-glibc "6.11. Glibc-2.3.4")
In this chapter, some tests can be adversely affected by existing tools or environmental issues on the host system. Glibc test suite failures in this chapter are typically not worrisome. The Glibc installed in [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system) is the one that will ultimately end up being used, so that is the one that needs to pass most tests (even in [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system), some failures could still occur, for example, with the math tests).
When experiencing a failure, make a note of it, then continue by reissuing the **make check** command. The test suite should pick up where it left off and continue. This stop-start sequence can be circumvented by issuing a **make -k check** command. If using this option, be sure to log the output so that the log file can be examined for failures later.
The install stage of Glibc will issue a harmless warning at the end about the absence of `/tools/etc/ld.so.conf`. Prevent this warning with:
```
`mkdir -v /tools/etc
touch /tools/etc/ld.so.conf`
```

Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

Different countries and cultures have varying conventions for how to communicate. These conventions range from the format for representing dates and times to more complex issues, such as the language spoken. The “internationalization” of GNU programs works by locale.
###  Note
If the test suites are not being run in this chapter (as per the recommendation), there is no need to install the locales now. The appropriate locales will be installed in the next chapter.
To install the Glibc locales anyway, use the following command:
```
`make localedata/install-locales`
```

To save time, an alternative to running the previous command (which generates and installs every locale Glibc is aware of) is to install only those locales that are wanted and needed. This can be achieved by using the **localedef** command. Information on this command is located in the `INSTALL` file in the Glibc source. However, there are a number of locales that are essential in order for the tests of future packages to pass, in particular, the _libstdc++_ tests from GCC. The following instructions, instead of the _`install-locales`_ target used above, will install the minimum set of locales necessary for the tests to run successfully:
```
`mkdir -pv /tools/lib/locale
localedef -i de_DE -f ISO-8859-1 de_DE
localedef -i de_DE@euro -f ISO-8859-15 de_DE@euro
localedef -i en_HK -f ISO-8859-1 en_HK
localedef -i en_PH -f ISO-8859-1 en_PH
localedef -i en_US -f ISO-8859-1 en_US
localedef -i es_MX -f ISO-8859-1 es_MX
localedef -i fa_IR -f UTF-8 fa_IR
localedef -i fr_FR -f ISO-8859-1 fr_FR
localedef -i fr_FR@euro -f ISO-8859-15 fr_FR@euro
localedef -i it_IT -f ISO-8859-1 it_IT
localedef -i ja_JP -f EUC-JP ja_JP`
```

Details on this package are located in [Section 6.11.4, “Contents of Glibc.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-glibc "6.11.4. Contents of Glibc")
##  5.7. Adjusting the Toolchain
Now that the temporary C libraries have been installed, all tools compiled in the rest of this chapter should be linked against these libraries. In order to accomplish this, the linker and the compiler's specs file need to be adjusted.
The linker, adjusted at the end of the first pass of Binutils, is installed by running the following command from within the `binutils-build` directory:
```
`make -C ld install`
```

From this point onwards, everything will link only against the libraries in `/tools/lib`.
###  Note
If the earlier warning to retain the Binutils source and build directories from the first pass was missed, ignore the above command. This results in a small chance that the subsequent testing programs will link against libraries on the host. This is not ideal, but it is not a major problem. The situation is corrected when the second pass of Binutils is installed later.
Now that the adjusted linker is installed, the Binutils build and source directories should be removed.
The next task is to amend the GCC specs file so that it points to the new dynamic linker. A simple sed script will accomplish this:
```
`SPECFILE=`gcc --print-file specs` &&
sed 's@ /lib/ld-linux.so.2@ /tools/lib/ld-linux.so.2@g' \
    $SPECFILE > tempspecfile &&
mv -f tempspecfile $SPECFILE &&
unset SPECFILE`
```

It is recommended that the above command be copy-and-pasted in order to ensure accuracy. Alternatively, the specs file can be edited by hand. This is done by replacing every occurrence of “/lib/ld-linux.so.2” with “/tools/lib/ld-linux.so.2”
Be sure to visually inspect the specs file in order to verify the intended changes have been made.
###  Important
If working on a platform where the name of the dynamic linker is something other than `ld-linux.so.2`, replace “ld-linux.so.2” with the name of the platform's dynamic linker in the above commands. Refer back to [Section 5.2, “Toolchain Technical Notes,”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-toolchaintechnotes "5.2. Toolchain Technical Notes") if necessary.
There is a possibility that some include files from the host system have found their way into GCC's private include dir. This can happen as a result of GCC's “fixincludes” process, which runs as part of the GCC build. This is explained in more detail later in this chapter. Run the following command to eliminate this possibility:
```
`rm -vf /tools/lib/gcc/*/*/include/{pthread.h,bits/sigthread.h}`
```

###  Caution
At this point, it is imperative to stop and ensure that the basic functions (compiling and linking) of the new toolchain are working as expected. To perform a sanity check, run the following commands:
```
`echo 'main(){}' > dummy.c
cc dummy.c
readelf -l a.out | grep ': /tools'`
```

If everything is working correctly, there should be no errors, and the output of the last command will be of the form:
```
`[Requesting program interpreter:
    /tools/lib/ld-linux.so.2]`
```

Note that `/tools/lib` appears as the prefix of the dynamic linker.
If the output is not shown as above or there was no output at all, then something is wrong. Investigate and retrace the steps to find out where the problem is and correct it. This issue must be resolved before continuing on. First, perform the sanity check again, using **gcc** instead of **cc**. If this works, then the `/tools/bin/cc` symlink is missing. Revisit [Section 5.4, “GCC-3.4.3 - Pass 1,”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-gcc-pass1 "5.4. GCC-3.4.3 - Pass 1") and install the symlink. Next, ensure that the `PATH` is correct. This can be checked by running **echo $PATH** and verifying that `/tools/bin` is at the head of the list. If the `PATH` is wrong it could mean that you are not logged in as user _lfs_ or that something went wrong back in [Section 4.4, “Setting Up the Environment.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-settingenviron "4.4. Setting Up the Environment") Another option is that something may have gone wrong with the specs file amendment above. In this case, redo the specs file amendment, being careful to copy-and-paste the commands.
Once all is well, clean up the test files:
```
`rm -v dummy.c a.out`
```

Building TCL in the next section will serve as an additional check that the toolchain has been built properly. If TCL fails to build, it is an indication that something has gone wrong with the Binutils, GCC, or Glibc installation, but not with TCL itself.
##  5.8. Tcl-8.4.9
The Tcl package contains the Tool Command Language.
**Approximate build time:** 0.9 SBU
**Required disk space:** 23.3 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, GCC, Glibc, Grep, Make, and Sed
###  5.8.1. Installation of Tcl
This package and the next two (Expect and DejaGNU) are installed to support running the test suites for GCC and Binutils. Installing three packages for testing purposes may seem excessive, but it is very reassuring, if not essential, to know that the most important tools are working properly. Even if the test suites are not run in this chapter (they are not mandatory), these packages are required to run the test suites in [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system).
Prepare Tcl for compilation:
```
`cd unix
./configure --prefix=/tools`
```

Build the package:
```
`make`
```

To test the results, issue: **`TZ=UTC make test`**. The Tcl test suite is known to experience failures under certain host conditions that are not fully understood. Therefore, test suite failures here are not surprising, and are not considered critical. The _`TZ=UTC`_ parameter sets the time zone to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), also known as Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), but only for the duration of the test suite run. This ensures that the clock tests are exercised correctly. Details on the `TZ` environment variable are provided in [Chapter 7](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-bootscripts).
Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

###  Warning
_Do not_ remove the `tcl8.4.9` source directory yet, as the next package will need its internal headers.
Set a variable containing the full path of the current directory. The next package, Expect, will use this variable to find Tcl's headers.
```
`cd ..
export TCLPATH=`pwd``
```

Now make a necessary symbolic link:
```
`ln -sv tclsh8.4 /tools/bin/tclsh`
```

###  5.8.2. Contents of Tcl
**Installed programs:** tclsh (link to tclsh8.4) and tclsh8.4
**Installed library:** libtcl8.4.so
###  Short Descriptions
**tclsh8.4** |  The Tcl command shell
---|---
**tclsh** |  A link to tclsh8.4
`libtcl8.4.so` |  The Tcl library
##  5.9. Expect-5.43.0
The Expect package contains a program for carrying out scripted dialogues with other interactive programs.
**Approximate build time:** 0.1 SBU
**Required disk space:** 4.0 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, GCC, Glibc, Grep, Make, Sed, and Tcl
###  5.9.1. Installation of Expect
First, fix a bug that can result in false failures during the GCC test suite run:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../expect-5.43.0-spawn-1.patch`
```

Now prepare Expect for compilation:
```
`./configure --prefix=/tools --with-tcl=/tools/lib \
   --with-tclinclude=$TCLPATH --with-x=no`
```

The meaning of the configure options:

_`--with-tcl=/tools/lib`_

This ensures that the configure script finds the Tcl installation in the temporary tools location instead of possibly locating an existing one on the host system.

_`--with-tclinclude=$TCLPATH`_

This explicitly tells Expect where to find Tcl's source directory and internal headers. Using this option avoids conditions where **configure** fails because it cannot automatically discover the location of the Tcl source directory.

_`--with-x=no`_

This tells the configure script not to search for Tk (the Tcl GUI component) or the X Window System libraries, both of which may reside on the host system but will not exist in the temporary environment.
Build the package:
```
`make`
```

To test the results, issue: **`make test`**. Note that the Expect test suite is known to experience failures under certain host conditions that are not within our control. Therefore, test suite failures here are not surprising and are not considered critical.
Install the package:
```
`make SCRIPTS="" install`
```

The meaning of the make parameter:

_`SCRIPTS=""`_

This prevents installation of the supplementary expect scripts, which are not needed.
Now remove the `TCLPATH` variable:
```
`unset TCLPATH`
```

The source directories of both Tcl and Expect can now be removed.
###  5.9.2. Contents of Expect
**Installed program:** expect
**Installed library:** libexpect-5.43.a
###  Short Descriptions
**expect** |  Communicates with other interactive programs according to a script
---|---
`libexpect-5.43.a` |  Contains functions that allow Expect to be used as a Tcl extension or to be used directly from C or C++ (without Tcl)
##  5.10. DejaGNU-1.4.4
The DejaGNU package contains a framework for testing other programs.
**Approximate build time:** 0.1 SBU
**Required disk space:** 6.1 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, GCC, Glibc, Grep, Make, and Sed
###  5.10.1. Installation of DejaGNU
Prepare DejaGNU for compilation:
```
`./configure --prefix=/tools`
```

Build and install the package:
```
`make install`
```

###  5.10.2. Contents of DejaGNU
**Installed program:** runtest
###  Short Descriptions
**runtest** |  A wrapper script that locates the proper **expect** shell and then runs DejaGNU
---|---
##  5.11. GCC-3.4.3 - Pass 2
**Approximate build time:** 11.0 SBU
**Required disk space:** 292 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, Findutils, Gawk, Gettext, Glibc, Grep, Make, Perl, Sed, and Texinfo
###  5.11.1. Re-installation of GCC
This package is known to have issues when its default optimization flags (including the _`-march`_ and _`-mcpu`_ options) are changed. If any environment variables that override default optimizations have been defined, such as `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`, unset them when building GCC.
The tools required to test GCC and Binutils—Tcl, Expect and DejaGNU—are installed now. GCC and Binutils can now be rebuilt, linking them against the new Glibc and testing them properly (if running the test suites in this chapter). Please note that these test suites are highly dependent on properly functioning PTYs which are provided by the host. PTYs are most commonly implemented via the `devpts` file system. Check to see if the host system is set up correctly in this regard by performing a quick test:
```
`expect -c "spawn ls"`
```

The response might be:
```
`The system has no more ptys.
Ask your system administrator to create more.`
```

If the above message is received, the host does not have its PTYs set up properly. In this case, there is no point in running the test suites for GCC and Binutils until this issue is resolved. Please consult the LFS FAQ at
First correct a known problem and make an essential adjustment:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../gcc-3.4.3-no_fixincludes-1.patch
patch -Np1 -i ../gcc-3.4.3-specs-2.patch`
```

The first patch disables the GCC **fixincludes** script. This was briefly mentioned earlier, but a more in-depth explanation of the fixincludes process is warranted here. Under normal circumstances, the GCC **fixincludes** script scans the system for header files that need to be fixed. It might find that some Glibc header files on the host system need to be fixed, and will fix them and put them in the GCC private include directory. In [Chapter 6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system), after the newer Glibc has been installed, this private include directory will be searched before the system include directory. This may result in GCC finding the fixed headers from the host system, which most likely will not match the Glibc version used for the LFS system.
The second patch changes GCC's default location of the dynamic linker (typically `ld-linux.so.2`). It also removes `/usr/include` from GCC's include search path. Patching now rather than adjusting the specs file after installation ensures that the new dynamic linker is used during the actual build of GCC. That is, all of the final (and temporary) binaries created during the build will link against the new Glibc.
###  Important
The above patches are critical in ensuring a successful overall build. Do not forget to apply them.
Create a separate build directory again:
```
`mkdir -v ../gcc-build
cd ../gcc-build`
```

Before starting to build GCC, remember to unset any environment variables that override the default optimization flags.
Now prepare GCC for compilation:
```
`../gcc-3.4.3/configure --prefix=/tools \
    --libexecdir=/tools/lib --with-local-prefix=/tools \
    --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-shared \
    --enable-threads=posix --enable-__cxa_atexit \
    --enable-languages=c,c++ --disable-libstdcxx-pch`
```

The meaning of the new configure options:

_`--enable-clocale=gnu`_

This option ensures the correct locale model is selected for the C++ libraries under all circumstances. If the configure script finds the _de_DE_ locale installed, it will select the correct gnu locale model. However, if the _de_DE_ locale is not installed, there is the risk of building Application Binary Interface (ABI)-incompatible C++ libraries because the incorrect generic locale model may be selected.

_`--enable-threads=posix`_

This enables C++ exception handling for multi-threaded code.

_`--enable-__cxa_atexit`_

This option allows use of ___cxa_atexit_ , rather than _atexit_ , to register C++ destructors for local statistics and global objects. This option is essential for fully standards-compliant handling of destructors. It also affects the C++ ABI, and therefore results in C++ shared libraries and C++ programs that are interoperable with other Linux distributions.

_`--enable-languages=c,c++`_

This option ensures that both the C and C++ compilers are built.

_`--disable-libstdcxx-pch`_

Do not build the pre-compiled header (PCH) for `libstdc++`. It takes up a lot of space, and we have no use for it.
Compile the package:
```
`make`
```

There is no need to use the _`bootstrap`_ target now because the compiler being used to compile this GCC was built from the exact same version of the GCC sources used earlier.
Compilation is now complete. As previously mentioned, running the test suites for the temporary tools compiled in this chapter is not mandatory. To run the GCC test suite anyway, use the following command:
```
`make -k check`
```

The _`-k`_ flag is used to make the test suite run through to completion and not stop at the first failure. The GCC test suite is very comprehensive and is almost guaranteed to generate a few failures. To receive a summary of the test suite results, run:
```
`../gcc-3.4.3/contrib/test_summary`
```

For only the summaries, pipe the output through **`grep -A7 Summ`**.
Results can be compared with those located at
A few unexpected failures cannot always be avoided. The GCC developers are usually aware of these issues, but have not resolved them yet. Unless the test results are vastly different from those at the above URL, it is safe to continue.
Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

###  Note
At this point it is strongly recommended to repeat the sanity check we performed earlier in this chapter. Refer back to [Section 5.7, “Adjusting the Toolchain,”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-adjusting "5.7. Adjusting the Toolchain") and repeat the test compilation. If the result is wrong, the most likely reason is that the GCC Specs patch was not properly applied.
Details on this package are located in [Section 6.14.2, “Contents of GCC.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-gcc "6.14.2. Contents of GCC")
##  5.12. Binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2 - Pass 2
The Binutils package contains a linker, an assembler, and other tools for handling object files.
**Approximate build time:** 1.5 SBU
**Required disk space:** 114 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Bison, Coreutils, Diffutils, Flex, GCC, Gettext, Glibc, Grep, M4, Make, Perl, Sed, and Texinfo
###  5.12.1. Re-installation of Binutils
This package is known to have issues when its default optimization flags (including the _`-march`_ and _`-mcpu`_ options) are changed. If any environment variables that override default optimizations have been defined, such as `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`, unset them when building Binutils.
Create a separate build directory again:
```
`mkdir -v ../binutils-build
cd ../binutils-build`
```

Prepare Binutils for compilation:
```
`../binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2/configure --prefix=/tools \
    --disable-nls --enable-shared --with-lib-path=/tools/lib`
```

The meaning of the new configure options:

_`--with-lib-path=/tools/lib`_

This tells the configure script to specify the library search path during the compilation of Binutils, resulting in `/tools/lib` being passed to the linker. This prevents the linker from searching through library directories on the host.
Compile the package:
```
`make`
```

Compilation is now complete. As discussed earlier, running the test suite is not mandatory for the temporary tools here in this chapter. To run the Binutils test suite anyway, issue the following command:
```
`make check`
```

Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

Now prepare the linker for the “Re-adjusting” phase in the next chapter:
```
`make -C ld clean
make -C ld LIB_PATH=/usr/lib:/lib`
```

###  Warning
_Do not_ remove the Binutils source and build directories yet. These directories will be needed again in the next chapter in their current state.
Details on this package are located in [Section 6.13.2, “Contents of Binutils.”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-binutils "6.13.2. Contents of Binutils")
##  5.13. Gawk-3.1.4
The Gawk package contains programs for manipulating text files.
**Approximate build time:** 0.2 SBU
**Required disk space:** 16.4 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, GCC, Gettext, Glibc, Grep, Make, and Sed
