##  2.3.1. **init**
The single most important service in a UNIX system is provided by **init** **init** is started as the first process of every UNIX system, as the last thing the kernel does when it boots. When **init** starts, it continues the boot process by doing various startup chores (checking and mounting filesystems, starting daemons, etc).
The exact list of things that **init** does depends on which flavor it is; there are several to choose from. **init** usually provides the concept of _single user mode_ , in which no one can log in and root uses a shell at the console; the usual mode is called _multiuser mode_. Some flavors generalize this as _run levels_ ; single and multiuser modes are considered to be two run levels, and there can be additional ones as well, for example, to run X on the console.
Linux allows for up to 10 _runlevels_ , 0-9, but usually only some of these are defined by default. Runlevel 0 is defined as ``system halt''. Runlevel 1 is defined as ``single user mode''. Runlevel 3 is defined as "multi user" because it is the runlevel that the system boot into under normal day to day conditions. Runlevel 5 is typically the same as 3 except that a GUI gets started also. Runlevel 6 is defined as ``system reboot''. Other runlevels are dependent on how your particular distribution has defined them, and they vary significantly between distributions. Looking at the contents of `/etc/inittab` usually will give some hint what the predefined runlevels are and what they have been defined as.
In normal operation, **init** makes sure **getty** is working (to allow users to log in) and to adopt orphan processes (processes whose parent has died; in UNIX _all_ processes _must_ be in a single tree, so orphans must be adopted).
When the system is shut down, it is **init** that is in charge of killing all other processes, unmounting all filesystems and stopping the processor, along with anything else it has been configured to do.
* * *
