## General notes[¶](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/databases/#general-notes "Link to this heading")
### Persistent connections[¶](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/databases/#persistent-connections "Link to this heading")
Persistent connections avoid the overhead of reestablishing a connection to the database in each HTTP request. They’re controlled by the [`CONN_MAX_AGE`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_MAX_AGE) parameter which defines the maximum lifetime of a connection. It can be set independently for each database.
The default value is `0`, preserving the historical behavior of closing the database connection at the end of each request. To enable persistent connections, set [`CONN_MAX_AGE`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_MAX_AGE) to a positive integer of seconds. For unlimited persistent connections, set it to `None`.
#### Connection management[¶](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/databases/#connection-management "Link to this heading")
Django opens a connection to the database when it first makes a database query. It keeps this connection open and reuses it in subsequent requests. Django closes the connection once it exceeds the maximum age defined by [`CONN_MAX_AGE`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_MAX_AGE) or when it isn’t usable any longer.
In detail, Django automatically opens a connection to the database whenever it needs one and doesn’t have one already — either because this is the first connection, or because the previous connection was closed.
At the beginning of each request, Django closes the connection if it has reached its maximum age. If your database terminates idle connections after some time, you should set [`CONN_MAX_AGE`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_MAX_AGE) to a lower value, so that Django doesn’t attempt to use a connection that has been terminated by the database server. (This problem may only affect very low traffic sites.)
At the end of each request, Django closes the connection if it has reached its maximum age or if it is in an unrecoverable error state. If any database errors have occurred while processing the requests, Django checks whether the connection still works, and closes it if it doesn’t. Thus, database errors affect at most one request per each application’s worker thread; if the connection becomes unusable, the next request gets a fresh connection.
Setting [`CONN_HEALTH_CHECKS`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_HEALTH_CHECKS) to `True` can be used to improve the robustness of connection reuse and prevent errors when a connection has been closed by the database server which is now ready to accept and serve new connections, e.g. after database server restart. The health check is performed only once per request and only if the database is being accessed during the handling of the request.
#### Caveats[¶](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/databases/#caveats "Link to this heading")
Since each thread maintains its own connection, your database must support at least as many simultaneous connections as you have worker threads.
Sometimes a database won’t be accessed by the majority of your views, for example because it’s the database of an external system, or thanks to caching. In such cases, you should set [`CONN_MAX_AGE`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/settings/#std-setting-CONN_MAX_AGE) to a low value or even `0`, because it doesn’t make sense to maintain a connection that’s unlikely to be reused. This will help keep the number of simultaneous connections to this database small.
The development server creates a new thread for each request it handles, negating the effect of persistent connections. Don’t enable them during development.
When Django establishes a connection to the database, it sets up appropriate parameters, depending on the backend being used. If you enable persistent connections, this setup is no longer repeated every request. If you modify parameters such as the connection’s isolation level or time zone, you should either restore Django’s defaults at the end of each request, force an appropriate value at the beginning of each request, or disable persistent connections.
If a connection is created in a long-running process, outside of Django’s request-response cycle, the connection will remain open until explicitly closed, or timeout occurs.
### Encoding[¶](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/databases/#encoding "Link to this heading")
Django assumes that all databases use UTF-8 encoding. Using other encodings may result in unexpected behavior such as “value too long” errors from your database for data that is valid in Django. See the database specific notes below for information on how to set up your database correctly.
