    * [Psmisc-21.6](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-psmisc)
    * [Shadow-4.0.9](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-shadow)
    * [Sysklogd-1.4.1](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-sysklogd)
    * [Sysvinit-2.86](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-sysvinit)
    * [Tar-1.15.1](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-tar)
    * [Udev-056](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-udev)
    * [Util-linux-2.12q](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-util-linux)
    * [About Debugging Symbols](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-aboutdebug)
    * [Stripping Again](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-strippingagain)
    * [Cleaning Up](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-system-revisedchroot)
  * ####  7. Setting Up System Bootscripts
    * [Introduction](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-introduction)
    * [LFS-Bootscripts-3.2.1](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-bootscripts)
    * [How Do These Bootscripts Work?](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-usage)
    * [Device and Module Handling on an LFS System](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-udev)
    * [Configuring the setclock Script](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-setclock)
    * [Configuring the Linux Console](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-console)
    * [Configuring the sysklogd script](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-sysklogd)
    * [Creating the /etc/inputrc File](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-inputrc)
    * [The Bash Shell Startup Files](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-profile)
    * [Configuring the localnet Script](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-hostname)
    * [Creating the /etc/hosts File](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-hosts)
    * [Configuring the network Script](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-scripts-network)
  * ####  8. Making the LFS System Bootable
    * [Introduction](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-bootable-introduction)
    * [Creating the /etc/fstab File](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-bootable-fstab)
    * [Linux-2.6.11.12](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-bootable-kernel)
    * [Making the LFS System Bootable](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-bootable-grub)
  * ####  9. The End
    * [The End](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-finish-theend)
    * [Get Counted](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-finish-getcounted)
    * [Rebooting the System](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-finish-reboot)
    * [What Now?](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-finish-whatnow)


##  Chapter 6. Installing Basic System Software
##  6.1. Introduction
In this chapter, we enter the building site and start constructing the LFS system in earnest. That is, we chroot into the temporary mini Linux system, make a few final preparations, and then begin installing the packages.
The installation of this software is straightforward. Although in many cases the installation instructions could be made shorter and more generic, we have opted to provide the full instructions for every package to minimize the possibilities for mistakes. The key to learning what makes a Linux system work is to know what each package is used for and why the user (or the system) needs it. For every installed package, a summary of its contents is given, followed by concise descriptions of each program and library the package installed.
If using the compiler optimizations provided in this chapter, please review the optimization hint at
The order that packages are installed in this chapter needs to be strictly followed to ensure that no program accidentally acquires a path referring to `/tools` hard-wired into it. For the same reason, do not compile packages in parallel. Compiling in parallel may save time (especially on dual-CPU machines), but it could result in a program containing a hard-wired path to `/tools`, which will cause the program to stop working when that directory is removed.
Before the installation instructions, each installation page provides information about the package, including a concise description of what it contains, approximately how long it will take to build, how much disk space is required during this building process, and any other packages needed to successfully build the package. Following the installation instructions, there is a list of programs and libraries (along with brief descriptions of these) that the package installs.
To keep track of which package installs particular files, a package manager can be used. For a general overview of different styles of package managers, please refer to
###  Note
The remainder of this book is to be performed while logged in as user _root_ and no longer as user _lfs_. Also, double check that `$LFS` is set.
##  6.2. Mounting Virtual Kernel File Systems
Various file systems exported by the kernel are used to communicate to and from the kernel itself. These file systems are virtual in that no disk space is used for them. The content of the file systems resides in memory.
Begin by creating directories onto which the file systems will be mounted:
```
`mkdir -pv $LFS/{proc,sys}`
```

Now mount the file systems:
```
`mount -vt proc proc $LFS/proc
mount -vt sysfs sysfs $LFS/sys`
```

Remember that if for any reason you stop working on the LFS system and start again later, it is important to check that these file systems are mounted again before entering the chroot environment.
Additional file systems will soon be mounted from within the chroot environment. To keep the host up to date, perform a “fake mount” for each of these now:
```
`mount -vft tmpfs tmpfs $LFS/dev
mount -vft tmpfs tmpfs $LFS/dev/shm
mount -vft devpts -o gid=4,mode=620 devpts $LFS/dev/pts`
```

##  6.3. Entering the Chroot Environment
It is time to enter the chroot environment to begin building and installing the final LFS system. As user _root_ , run the following command to enter the realm that is, at the moment, populated with only the temporary tools:
```
`chroot "$LFS" /tools/bin/env -i \
    HOME=/root TERM="$TERM" PS1='\u:\w\$ ' \
    PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/usr/sbin:/tools/bin \
    /tools/bin/bash --login +h`
```

The _`-i`_ option given to the **env** command will clear all variables of the chroot environment. After that, only the `HOME`, `TERM`, `PS1`, and `PATH` variables are set again. The _`TERM=$TERM`_ construct will set the `TERM` variable inside chroot to the same value as outside chroot. This variable is needed for programs like **vim** and **less** to operate properly. If other variables are needed, such as `CFLAGS` or `CXXFLAGS`, this is a good place to set them again.
From this point on, there is no need to use the `LFS` variable anymore, because all work will be restricted to the LFS file system. This is because the Bash shell is told that `$LFS` is now the root (`/`) directory.
Notice that `/tools/bin` comes last in the `PATH`. This means that a temporary tool will no longer be used once its final version is installed. This occurs when the shell does not “remember” the locations of executed binaries—for this reason, hashing is switched off by passing the _`+h`_ option to **bash**.
It is important that all the commands throughout the remainder of this chapter and the following chapters are run from within the chroot environment. If you leave this environment for any reason (rebooting for example), remember to first mount the `proc` and `devpts` file systems (discussed in the previous section) and enter chroot again before continuing with the installations.
Note that the **bash** prompt will say `I have no name!` This is normal because the `/etc/passwd` file has not been created yet.
##  6.4. Changing Ownership
Currently, the `/tools` directory is owned by the user _lfs_ , a user that exists only on the host system. Although the `/tools` directory can be deleted once the LFS system has been finished, it can be retained to build additional LFS systems. If the `/tools` directory is kept as is, the files are owned by a user ID without a corresponding account. This is dangerous because a user account created later could get this same user ID and would own the `/tools` directory and all the files therein, thus exposing these files to possible malicious manipulation.
To avoid this issue, add the _lfs_ user to the new LFS system later when creating the `/etc/passwd` file, taking care to assign it the same user and group IDs as on the host system. Alternatively, assign the contents of the `/tools` directory to user _root_ by running the following command:
```
`chown -R 0:0 /tools`
```

The command uses _`0:0`_ instead of _`root:root`_ , because **chown** is unable to resolve the name “root” until the password file has been created. This book assumes you ran this **chown** command.
##  6.5. Creating Directories
It is time to create some structure in the LFS file system. Create a standard directory tree by issuing the following commands:
```
`install -dv /{bin,boot,dev,etc/opt,home,lib,mnt}
install -dv /{sbin,srv,usr/local,var,opt}
install -dv /root -m 0750
install -dv /tmp /var/tmp -m 1777
install -dv /media/{floppy,cdrom}
install -dv /usr/{bin,include,lib,sbin,share,src}
ln -sv share/{man,doc,info} /usr
install -dv /usr/share/{doc,info,locale,man}
install -dv /usr/share/{misc,terminfo,zoneinfo}
install -dv /usr/share/man/man{1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
install -dv /usr/local/{bin,etc,include,lib,sbin,share,src}
ln -sv share/{man,doc,info} /usr/local
install -dv /usr/local/share/{doc,info,locale,man}
install -dv /usr/local/share/{misc,terminfo,zoneinfo}
install -dv /usr/local/share/man/man{1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
install -dv /var/{lock,log,mail,run,spool}
install -dv /var/{opt,cache,lib/{misc,locate},local}
install -dv /opt/{bin,doc,include,info}
install -dv /opt/{lib,man/man{1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}}`
```

Directories are, by default, created with permission mode 755, but this is not desirable for all directories. In the commands above, two changes are made—one to the home directory of user _root_ , and another to the directories for temporary files.
The first mode change ensures that not just anybody can enter the `/root` directory—the same as a normal user would do with his or her home directory. The second mode change makes sure that any user can write to the `/tmp` and `/var/tmp` directories, but cannot remove another user's files from them. The latter is prohibited by the so-called “sticky bit,” the highest bit (1) in the 1777 bit mask.
###  6.5.1. FHS Compliance Note
The directory tree is based on the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) (available at `/usr/local/games` and `/usr/share/games`. The FHS is not precise as to the structure of the `/usr/local/share` subdirectory, so we create only the directories that are needed. However, feel free to create these directories if you prefer to conform more strictly to the FHS.
##  6.6. Creating Essential Symlinks
Some programs use hard-wired paths to programs which do not exist yet. In order to satisfy these programs, create a number of symbolic links which will be replaced by real files throughout the course of this chapter after the software has been installed.
```
`ln -sv /tools/bin/{bash,cat,pwd,stty} /bin
ln -sv /tools/bin/perl /usr/bin
ln -sv /tools/lib/libgcc_s.so{,.1} /usr/lib
ln -sv bash /bin/sh`
```

##  6.7. Creating the passwd, group, and log Files
In order for user _root_ to be able to login and for the name “root” to be recognized, there must be relevant entries in the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files.
Create the `/etc/passwd` file by running the following command:
```
`cat > /etc/passwd << "EOF"
`root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash`
EOF`
```

The actual password for _root_ (the “x” used here is just a placeholder) will be set later.
Create the `/etc/group` file by running the following command:
```
`cat > /etc/group << "EOF"
`root:x:0:
bin:x:1:
sys:x:2:
kmem:x:3:
tty:x:4:
tape:x:5:
daemon:x:6:
floppy:x:7:
disk:x:8:
lp:x:9:
dialout:x:10:
audio:x:11:
video:x:12:
utmp:x:13:
usb:x:14:
cdrom:x:15:`
EOF`
```

The created groups are not part of any standard—they are groups decided on in part by the requirements of the Udev configuration in this chapter, and in part by common convention employed by a number of existing Linux distributions. The Linux Standard Base (LSB, available at root” with a Group ID (GID) of 0, a group “bin” with a GID of 1 be present. All other group names and GIDs can be chosen freely by the system administrator since well-written programs do not depend on GID numbers, but rather use the group's name.
To remove the “I have no name!” prompt, start a new shell. Since a full Glibc was installed in [Chapter 5](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-temporary-tools) and the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files have been created, user name and group name resolution will now work.
```
`exec /tools/bin/bash --login +h`
```

Note the use of the _`+h`_ directive. This tells **bash** not to use its internal path hashing. Without this directive, **bash** would remember the paths to binaries it has executed. To ensure the use of the newly compiled binaries as soon as they are installed, the _`+h`_ directive will be used for the duration of this chapter.
The **login** , **agetty** , and **init** programs (and others) use a number of log files to record information such as who was logged into the system and when. However, these programs will not write to the log files if they do not already exist. Initialize the log files and give them proper permissions:
```
`touch /var/run/utmp /var/log/{btmp,lastlog,wtmp}
chgrp -v utmp /var/run/utmp /var/log/lastlog
chmod -v 664 /var/run/utmp /var/log/lastlog`
```

The `/var/run/utmp` file records the users that are currently logged in. The `/var/log/wtmp` file records all logins and logouts. The `/var/log/lastlog` file records when each user last logged in. The `/var/log/btmp` file records the bad login attempts.
##  6.8. Populating /dev
###  6.8.1. Creating Initial Device Nodes
When the kernel boots the system, it requires the presence of a few device nodes, in particular the `console` and `null` devices. The device nodes will be created on the hard disk so that they are available before **udev** has been started, and additionally when Linux is started in single user mode (hence the restrictive permissions on `console`). Create the devices by running the following commands:
```
`mknod -m 600 /dev/console c 5 1
mknod -m 666 /dev/null c 1 3`
```

###  6.8.2. Mounting tmpfs and Populating /dev
The recommended method of populating the `/dev` directory with devices is to mount a virtual filesystem (such as `tmpfs`) on the `/dev` directory, and allow the devices to be created dynamically on that virtual filesystem as they are detected or accessed. This is generally done during the boot process. Since this new system has not been booted, it is necessary to do what the LFS-Bootscripts package would otherwise do by mounting `/dev`:
```
`mount -nvt tmpfs none /dev`
```

The Udev package is what actually creates the devices in the `/dev` directory. Since it will not be installed until later on in the process, manually create the minimal set of device nodes needed to complete the building of this system:
```
`mknod -m 622 /dev/console c 5 1
mknod -m 666 /dev/null c 1 3
mknod -m 666 /dev/zero c 1 5
mknod -m 666 /dev/ptmx c 5 2
mknod -m 666 /dev/tty c 5 0
mknod -m 444 /dev/random c 1 8
mknod -m 444 /dev/urandom c 1 9
chown -v root:tty /dev/{console,ptmx,tty}`
```

There are some symlinks and directories required by LFS that are created during system startup by the LFS-Bootscripts package. Since this is a chroot environment and not a booted environment, those symlinks and directories need to be created here:
```
`ln -sv /proc/self/fd /dev/fd
ln -sv /proc/self/fd/0 /dev/stdin
ln -sv /proc/self/fd/1 /dev/stdout
ln -sv /proc/self/fd/2 /dev/stderr
ln -sv /proc/kcore /dev/core
mkdir -v /dev/pts
mkdir -v /dev/shm`
```

Finally, mount the proper virtual (kernel) file systems on the newly-created directories:
```
`mount -vt devpts -o gid=4,mode=620 none /dev/pts
mount -vt tmpfs none /dev/shm`
```

The **mount** commands executed above may result in the following warning message:
```
`can't open /etc/fstab: No such file or directory.`
```

This file—`/etc/fstab`—has not been created yet but is also not required for the file systems to be properly mounted. As such, the warning can be safely ignored.
##  6.9. Linux-Libc-Headers-2.6.11.2
The Linux-Libc-Headers package contains the “sanitized” kernel headers.
**Approximate build time:** 0.1 SBU
**Required disk space:** 26.9 MB
**Installation depends on:** Coreutils
###  6.9.1. Installation of Linux-Libc-Headers
For years it has been common practice to use “raw” kernel headers (straight from a kernel tarball) in `/usr/include`, but over the last few years, the kernel developers have taken a strong stance that this should not be done. This gave birth to the Linux-Libc-Headers Project, which was designed to maintain an API stable version of the Linux headers.
Install the header files:
```
`cp -Rv include/asm-i386 /usr/include/asm
cp -Rv include/linux /usr/include`
```

Ensure that all the headers are owned by root:
```
`chown -Rv root:root /usr/include/{asm,linux}`
```

Make sure the users can read the headers:
```
`find /usr/include/{asm,linux} -type d -exec chmod -v 755 {} \;
find /usr/include/{asm,linux} -type f -exec chmod -v 644 {} \;`
```

###  6.9.2. Contents of Linux-Libc-Headers
**Installed headers:** /usr/include/{asm,linux}/*.h
###  Short Descriptions
`/usr/include/{asm,linux}/*.h` |  The Linux API headers
---|---
##  6.10. Man-pages-2.01
The Man-pages package contains over 1,200 man pages.
**Approximate build time:** 0.1 SBU
**Required disk space:** 25.8 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Coreutils, and Make
###  6.10.1. Installation of Man-pages
Install Man-pages by running:
```
`make install`
```

###  6.10.2. Contents of Man-pages
**Installed files:** various man pages
###  Short Descriptions
`man pages` |  Describe the C and C++ functions, important device files, and significant configuration files
---|---
##  6.11. Glibc-2.3.4
The Glibc package contains the main C library. This library provides the basic routines for allocating memory, searching directories, opening and closing files, reading and writing files, string handling, pattern matching, arithmetic, and so on.
**Approximate build time:** 12.3 SBU
**Required disk space:** 476 MB
**Installation depends on:** Bash, Binutils, Coreutils, Diffutils, Gawk, GCC, Gettext, Grep, Make, Perl, Sed, and Texinfo
###  6.11.1. Installation of Glibc
###  Note
Some packages outside of LFS suggest installing GNU libiconv in order to translate data from one encoding to another. The project's home page (This library provides an `iconv()` implementation, for use on systems which don't have one, or whose implementation cannot convert from/to Unicode. ” Glibc provides an `iconv()` implementation and can convert from/to Unicode, therefore libiconv is not required on an LFS system.
This package is known to have issues when its default optimization flags (including the _`-march`_ and _`-mcpu`_ options) are changed. If any environment variables that override default optimizations have been defined, such as `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`, unset them when building Glibc.
The Glibc build system is self-contained and will install perfectly, even though the compiler specs file and linker are still pointing at `/tools`. The specs and linker cannot be adjusted before the Glibc install because the Glibc autoconf tests would give false results and defeat the goal of achieving a clean build.
The linuxthreads tarball contains the man pages for the threading libraries installed by Glibc. Unpack the tarball from within the Glibc source directory:
```
`tar -xjvf ../glibc-linuxthreads-2.3.4.tar.bz2`
```

In certain rare circumstances, Glibc can segfault when no standard search directories exist. The following patch prevents this:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../glibc-2.3.4-rtld_search_dirs-1.patch`
```

Glibc has two tests which fail when the running kernel is 2.6.11.x The problem has been determined to be with the tests themselves, not with the libc nor the kernel. This patch fixes the problem:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../glibc-2.3.4-fix_test-1.patch`
```

Apply the following patch to fix a bug in Glibc that can prevent some programs (including OpenOffice.org) from running:
```
`patch -Np1 -i ../glibc-2.3.4-tls_assert-1.patch`
```

The Glibc documentation recommends building Glibc outside of the source directory in a dedicated build directory:
```
`mkdir -v ../glibc-build
cd ../glibc-build`
```

Prepare Glibc for compilation:
```
`../glibc-2.3.4/configure --prefix=/usr \
    --disable-profile --enable-add-ons \
    --enable-kernel=2.6.0 --libexecdir=/usr/lib/glibc`
```

The meaning of the new configure options:

_`--libexecdir=/usr/lib/glibc`_

This changes the location of the **pt_chown** program from its default of `/usr/libexec` to `/usr/lib/glibc`.
Compile the package:
```
`make`
```

###  Important
In this section, the test suite for Glibc is considered critical. Do not skip it under any circumstance.
Test the results:
```
`make -k check >glibc-check-log 2>&1
grep Error glibc-check-log`
```

The Glibc test suite is highly dependent on certain functions of the host system, in particular the kernel. In general, the Glibc test suite is always expected to pass. However, in certain circumstances, some failures are unavoidable. This is a list of the most common issues:
  * The _math_ tests sometimes fail when running on systems where the CPU is not a relatively new genuine Intel or authentic AMD. Certain optimization settings are also known to be a factor here.
  * The _gettext_ test sometimes fails due to host system issues. The exact reasons are not yet clear.
  * If you have mounted the LFS partition with the _`noatime`_ option, the _atime_ test will fail. As mentioned in [Section 2.4, “Mounting the New Partition”](https://tldp.org/LDP/lfs/LFS-BOOK-6.1.1-NOCHUNKS.html#space-mounting "2.4. Mounting the New Partition"), do not use the _`noatime`_ option while building LFS.
  * When running on older and slower hardware, some tests can fail because of test timeouts being exceeded.


Though it is a harmless message, the install stage of Glibc will complain about the absence of `/etc/ld.so.conf`. Prevent this warning with:
```
`touch /etc/ld.so.conf`
```

Install the package:
```
`make install`
```

The locales that can make the system respond in a different language were not installed by the above command. Install this with:
```
`make localedata/install-locales`
```

To save time, an alternative to running the previous command (which generates and installs every locale listed in the glibc-2.3.4/localedata/SUPPORTED file) is to install only those locales that are wanted and needed. This can be achieved by using the **localedef** command. Information on this command is located in the `INSTALL` file in the Glibc source. However, there are a number of locales that are essential in order for the tests of future packages to pass, in particular, the _libstdc++_ tests from GCC. The following instructions, instead of the _`install-locales`_ target used above, will install the minimum set of locales necessary for the tests to run successfully:
```
`mkdir -pv /usr/lib/locale
localedef -i de_DE -f ISO-8859-1 de_DE
localedef -i de_DE@euro -f ISO-8859-15 de_DE@euro
localedef -i en_HK -f ISO-8859-1 en_HK
localedef -i en_PH -f ISO-8859-1 en_PH
localedef -i en_US -f ISO-8859-1 en_US
localedef -i es_MX -f ISO-8859-1 es_MX
localedef -i fa_IR -f UTF-8 fa_IR
localedef -i fr_FR -f ISO-8859-1 fr_FR
localedef -i fr_FR@euro -f ISO-8859-15 fr_FR@euro
localedef -i it_IT -f ISO-8859-1 it_IT
localedef -i ja_JP -f EUC-JP ja_JP`
```

Some locales installed by the **make localedata/install-locales** command above are not properly supported by some applications that are in the LFS and BLFS books. Because of the various problems that arise due to application programmers making assumptions that break in such locales, LFS should not be used in locales that utilize multibyte character sets (including UTF-8) or right-to-left writing order. Numerous unofficial and unstable patches are required to fix these problems, and it has been decided by the LFS developers not to support such complex locales at this time. This applies to the ja_JP and fa_IR locales as well—they have been installed only for GCC and Gettext tests to pass, and the **watch** program (part of the Procps package) does not work properly in them. Various attempts to circumvent these restrictions are documented in internationalization-related hints.
Build the linuxthreads man pages, which are a great reference on the threading API (applicable to NPTL as well):
