## 0.22.0 (2019-05-16)[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#0220-2019-05-16)
  * Add support for `dependencies` parameter:
    * A parameter in _path operation decorators_ , for dependencies that should be executed but the return value is not important or not used in the _path operation function_.
    * A parameter in the `.include_router()` method of FastAPI applications and routers, to include dependencies that should be executed in each _path operation_ in a router.
      * This is useful, for example, to require authentication or permissions in specific group of _path operations_.
      * Different `dependencies` can be applied to different routers.
    * These `dependencies` are run before the normal parameter dependencies. And normal dependencies are run too. They can be combined.
    * Dependencies declared in a router are executed first, then the ones defined in _path operation decorators_ , and then the ones declared in normal parameters. They are all combined and executed.
    * All this also supports using `Security` with `scopes` in those `dependencies` parameters, for more advanced OAuth 2.0 security scenarios with scopes.
    * New documentation about [dependencies in _path operation decorators_](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/dependencies-in-path-operation-decorators/).
    * New documentation about [dependencies in the `include_router()` method](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/#include-an-apirouter-with-a-prefix-tags-responses-and-dependencies).
    * PR
  * Fix OpenAPI documentation of Starlette URL convertors. Specially useful when using `path` convertors, to take a whole path as a parameter, like `/some/url/{p:path}`. PR
  * Make default parameter utilities exported from `fastapi` be functions instead of classes (the new functions return instances of those classes). To be able to override the return types and fix `mypy` errors in FastAPI's users' code. Applies to `Path`, `Query`, `Header`, `Cookie`, `Body`, `Form`, `File`, `Depends`, and `Security`. PR
  * Separate development scripts `test.sh`, `lint.sh`, and `format.sh`. PR
  * Re-enable `black` formatting checks for Python 3.7. PR
