## 0.30.0 (2019-06-20)[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#0300-2019-06-20)
  * Add support for Pydantic's ORM mode:
    * Updated documentation about SQL with SQLAlchemy, using Pydantic models with ORM mode, SQLAlchemy models with relations, separation of files, simplification of code and other changes. New docs: [SQL (Relational) Databases](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/sql-databases/).
    * The new support for ORM mode fixes issues/adds features related to ORMs with lazy-loading, hybrid properties, dynamic/getters (using `@property` decorators) and several other use cases.
    * This applies to ORMs like SQLAlchemy, Peewee, Tortoise ORM, GINO ORM and virtually any other.
    * If your _path operations_ return an arbitrary object with attributes (e.g. `my_item.name` instead of `my_item["name"]`) AND you use a `response_model`, make sure to update the Pydantic models with `orm_mode = True` as described in the docs (link above).
    * New documentation about receiving plain `dict`s as request bodies: [Bodies of arbitrary `dict`s](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/body-nested-models/#bodies-of-arbitrary-dicts).
    * New documentation about returning arbitrary `dict`s in responses: [Response with arbitrary `dict`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/extra-models/#response-with-arbitrary-dict).
    * **Technical Details** :
      * When declaring a `response_model` it is used directly to generate the response content, from whatever was returned from the _path operation function_.
      * Before this, the return content was first passed through `jsonable_encoder` to ensure it was a "jsonable" object, like a `dict`, instead of an arbitrary object with attributes (like an ORM model). That's why you should make sure to update your Pydantic models for objects with attributes to use `orm_mode = True`.
      * If you don't have a `response_model`, the return object will still be passed through `jsonable_encoder` first.
      * When a `response_model` is declared, the same `response_model` type declaration won't be used as is, it will be "cloned" to create an new one (a cloned Pydantic `Field` with all the submodels cloned as well).
      * This avoids/fixes a potential security issue: as the returned object is passed directly to Pydantic, if the returned object was a subclass of the `response_model` (e.g. you return a `UserInDB` that inherits from `User` but contains extra fields, like `hashed_password`, and `User` is used in the `response_model`), it would still pass the validation (because `UserInDB` is a subclass of `User`) and the object would be returned as-is, including the `hashed_password`. To fix this, the declared `response_model` is cloned, if it is a Pydantic model class (or contains Pydantic model classes in it, e.g. in a `List[Item]`), the Pydantic model class(es) will be a different one (the "cloned" one). So, an object that is a subclass won't simply pass the validation and returned as-is, because it is no longer a sub-class of the cloned `response_model`. Instead, a new Pydantic model object will be created with the contents of the returned object. So, it will be a new object (made with the data from the returned one), and will be filtered by the cloned `response_model`, containing only the declared fields as normally.
    * PR
  * Remove/clean unused RegEx code in routing. PR
  * Use default response status code descriptions for additional responses. PR
  * Upgrade Pydantic support to `0.28`. PR
