## 0.62.0 (2020-11-29)[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#0620-2020-11-29)
### Features[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#features_52)
  * ✨ Add support for shared/top-level parameters (dependencies, tags, etc). PR


Up to now, for several options, the only way to apply them to a group of _path operations_ was in `include_router`. That works well, but the call to `app.include_router()` or `router.include_router()` is normally done in another file.
That means that, for example, to apply authentication to all the _path operations_ in a router it would end up being done in a different file, instead of keeping related logic together.
Setting options in `include_router` still makes sense in some cases, for example, to override or increase configurations from a third party router included in an app. But in a router that is part of a bigger application, it would probably make more sense to add those settings when creating the `APIRouter`.
**In`FastAPI`**
This allows setting the (mostly new) parameters (additionally to the already existing parameters):
  * `default_response_class`: updated to handle defaults in `APIRouter` and `include_router`.
  * `dependencies`: to include ✨ top-level dependencies ✨ that apply to the whole application. E.g. to add global authentication.
  * `callbacks`: OpenAPI callbacks that apply to all the _path operations_.
  * `deprecated`: to mark all the _path operations_ as deprecated. 🤷
  * `include_in_schema`: to allow excluding all the _path operations_ from the OpenAPI schema.
  * `responses`: OpenAPI responses that apply to all the _path operations_.


For example:
```
from fastapi import FastAPI, Depends


async def some_dependency():
    return


app = FastAPI(dependencies=[Depends(some_dependency)])

```

**In`APIRouter`**
This allows setting the (mostly new) parameters (additionally to the already existing parameters):
  * `default_response_class`: updated to handle defaults in `APIRouter` and `include_router`. For example, it's not needed to set it explicitly when [creating callbacks](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/openapi-callbacks/).
  * `dependencies`: to include ✨ router-level dependencies ✨ that apply to all the _path operations_ in a router. Up to now, this was only possible with `include_router`.
  * `callbacks`: OpenAPI callbacks that apply to all the _path operations_ in this router.
  * `deprecated`: to mark all the _path operations_ in a router as deprecated.
  * `include_in_schema`: to allow excluding all the _path operations_ in a router from the OpenAPI schema.
  * `responses`: OpenAPI responses that apply to all the _path operations_ in a router.
  * `prefix`: to set the path prefix for a router. Up to now, this was only possible when calling `include_router`.
  * `tags`: OpenAPI tags to apply to all the _path operations_ in this router.


For example:
```
from fastapi import APIRouter, Depends


async def some_dependency():
    return


router = APIRouter(prefix="/users", dependencies=[Depends(some_dependency)])

```

**In`include_router`**
Most of these settings are now supported in `APIRouter`, which normally lives closer to the related code, so it is recommended to use `APIRouter` when possible.
But `include_router` is still useful to, for example, adding options (like `dependencies`, `prefix`, and `tags`) when including a third party router, or a generic router that is shared between several projects.
This PR allows setting the (mostly new) parameters (additionally to the already existing parameters):
  * `default_response_class`: updated to handle defaults in `APIRouter` and `FastAPI`.
  * `deprecated`: to mark all the _path operations_ in a router as deprecated in OpenAPI.
  * `include_in_schema`: to allow disabling all the _path operations_ from showing in the OpenAPI schema.
  * `callbacks`: OpenAPI callbacks that apply to all the _path operations_ in this router.


Note: all the previous parameters are still there, so it's still possible to declare `dependencies` in `include_router`.
### Breaking Changes[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#breaking-changes_12)
  * PR
    * If you are testing the generated OpenAPI (you shouldn't, FastAPI already tests it extensively for you): the order for `tags` in `include_router` and _path operations_ was updated for consistency, but it's a simple order change.
    * If you have advanced custom logic to access each route's `route.response_class`, or the `router.default_response_class`, or the `app.default_response_class`: the default value for `response_class` in `APIRoute` and for `default_response_class` in `APIRouter` and `FastAPI` is now a `DefaultPlaceholder` used internally to handle and solve default values and overrides. The actual response class inside the `DefaultPlaceholder` is available at `route.response_class.value`.


### Docs[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#docs_92)
  * PR
    * [Advanced User Guide - OpenAPI Callbacks](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/openapi-callbacks/).
    * [Tutorial - Bigger Applications](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/).
    * [Tutorial - Dependencies - Dependencies in path operation decorators](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/dependencies-in-path-operation-decorators/).
    * [Tutorial - Dependencies - Global Dependencies](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/global-dependencies/).
  * 📝 Add FastAPI monitoring blog post to External Links. PR
  * ✏️ Fix typo in Deta tutorial. PR
  * ✨ Add Discord chat. PR
  * 📝 Fix image links for sponsors. PR


### Translations[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#translations_89)
  * 🌐 Add Japanese translation for Advanced - Custom Response. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Benchmarks. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Tutorial - Body - Nested Models. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Advanced - Custom Response. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Advanced - Return a Response Directly. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Advanced - Additional Status Codes. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Advanced - Path Operation Advanced Configuration. PR
  * 🌐 Add Chinese translation for Advanced User Guide - Intro. PR


### Internal[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#internal_124)
  * 🔧 Update TestDriven link to course in sponsors section. PR
  * 🍱 Update sponsor logos. PR
  * 💚 Fix disabling install of Material for MkDocs Insiders in forks, strike 1 ⚾. PR
  * 🐛 Fix disabling Material for MkDocs Insiders install in forks. PR
  * ✨ Add silver sponsor WeTransfer. PR
  * ✨ Set up and enable Material for MkDocs Insiders for the docs. PR
