## 0.74.0 (2022-02-17)[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#0740-2022-02-17)
### Breaking Changes[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#breaking-changes_10)
  * ✨ Update internal `AsyncExitStack` to fix context for dependencies with `yield`. PR


Dependencies with `yield` can now catch `HTTPException` and custom exceptions. For example:
```
async def get_database():
    with Session() as session:
        try:
            yield session
        except HTTPException:
            session.rollback()
            raise
        finally:
            session.close()

```

After the dependency with `yield` handles the exception (or not) the exception is raised again. So that any exception handlers can catch it, or ultimately the default internal `ServerErrorMiddleware`.
If you depended on exceptions not being received by dependencies with `yield`, and receiving an exception breaks the code after `yield`, you can use a block with `try` and `finally`:
```
async def do_something():
    try:
        yield something
    finally:
        some_cleanup()

```

...that way the `finally` block is run regardless of any exception that might happen.
### Features[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#features_41)
  * The same PR `contextvars` context for the code before and after `yield`. This was the main objective of that PR.


This means that now, if you set a value in a context variable before `yield`, the value would still be available after `yield` (as you would intuitively expect). And it also means that you can reset the context variable with a token afterwards.
For example, this works correctly now:
```
from contextvars import ContextVar
from typing import Any, Dict, Optional


legacy_request_state_context_var: ContextVar[Optional[Dict[str, Any]]] = ContextVar(
    "legacy_request_state_context_var", default=None
)

async def set_up_request_state_dependency():
    request_state = {"user": "deadpond"}
    contextvar_token = legacy_request_state_context_var.set(request_state)
    yield request_state
    legacy_request_state_context_var.reset(contextvar_token)

```

...before this change it would raise an error when resetting the context variable, because the `contextvars` context was different, because of the way it was implemented.
**Note** : You probably don't need `contextvars`, and you should probably avoid using them. But they are powerful and useful in some advanced scenarios, for example, migrating from code that used Flask's `g` semi-global variable.
**Technical Details** : If you want to know more of the technical details you can check out the PR description
### Internal[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#internal_108)
  * 🔧 Add Striveworks sponsor. PR
  * 💚 Only build docs on push when on master to avoid duplicate runs from PRs. PR
  * 👥 Update FastAPI People. PR
