## 0.95.0 (2023-03-18)[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#0950-2023-03-18)
### Highlights[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#highlights_1)
This release adds support for dependencies and parameters using `Annotated` and recommends its usage. ✨
This has **several benefits** , one of the main ones is that now the parameters of your functions with `Annotated` would **not be affected** at all.
If you call those functions in **other places in your code** , the actual **default values** will be kept, your editor will help you notice missing **required arguments** , Python will require you to pass required arguments at **runtime** , you will be able to **use the same functions** for different things and with different libraries (e.g. **Typer** will soon support `Annotated` too, then you could use the same function for an API and a CLI), etc.
Because `Annotated` is **standard Python** , you still get all the **benefits** from editors and tools, like **autocompletion** , **inline errors** , etc.
One of the **biggest benefits** is that now you can create `Annotated` dependencies that are then shared by multiple _path operation functions_ , this will allow you to **reduce** a lot of **code duplication** in your codebase, while keeping all the support from editors and tools.
For example, you could have code like this:
```
def get_current_user(token: str):
    # authenticate user
    return User()


@app.get("/items/")
def read_items(user: User = Depends(get_current_user)):
    ...


@app.post("/items/")
def create_item(*, user: User = Depends(get_current_user), item: Item):
    ...


@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(*, user: User = Depends(get_current_user), item_id: int):
    ...


@app.delete("/items/{item_id}")
def delete_item(*, user: User = Depends(get_current_user), item_id: int):
    ...

```

There's a bit of code duplication for the dependency:
```
user: User = Depends(get_current_user)

```

...the bigger the codebase, the more noticeable it is.
Now you can create an annotated dependency once, like this:
```
CurrentUser = Annotated[User, Depends(get_current_user)]

```

And then you can reuse this `Annotated` dependency:
```
CurrentUser = Annotated[User, Depends(get_current_user)]


@app.get("/items/")
def read_items(user: CurrentUser):
    ...


@app.post("/items/")
def create_item(user: CurrentUser, item: Item):
    ...


@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(user: CurrentUser, item_id: int):
    ...


@app.delete("/items/{item_id}")
def delete_item(user: CurrentUser, item_id: int):
    ...

```

...and `CurrentUser` has all the typing information as `User`, so your editor will work as expected (autocompletion and everything), and **FastAPI** will be able to understand the dependency defined in `Annotated`. 😎
Roughly **all the docs** have been rewritten to use `Annotated` as the main way to declare **parameters** and **dependencies**. All the **examples** in the docs now include a version with `Annotated` and a version without it, for each of the specific Python versions (when there are small differences/improvements in more recent versions). There were around 23K new lines added between docs, examples, and tests. 🚀
The key updated docs are:
  * Python Types Intro:
    * [Type Hints with Metadata Annotations](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/python-types/#type-hints-with-metadata-annotations).
  * Tutorial:
    * [Query Parameters and String Validations - Additional validation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/query-params-str-validations/#additional-validation)
      * [Advantages of `Annotated`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/query-params-str-validations/#advantages-of-annotated)
    * [Path Parameters and Numeric Validations - Order the parameters as you need, tricks](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/path-params-numeric-validations/#order-the-parameters-as-you-need-tricks)
      * [Better with `Annotated`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/path-params-numeric-validations/#better-with-annotated)
    * [Dependencies - First Steps - Share `Annotated` dependencies](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/#share-annotated-dependencies)


Special thanks to
### Features[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#features_29)
  * ✨Add support for PEP-593 `Annotated` for specifying dependencies and parameters. PR


### Docs[¶](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/release-notes/#docs_65)
  * 📝 Tweak tip recommending `Annotated` in docs. PR
  * 📝 Update order of examples, latest Python version first, and simplify version tab names. PR
  * 📝 Update all docs to use `Annotated` as the main recommendation, with new examples and tests. PR
