## Benefits
Always On availability groups provide a rich set of options that improve database availability and improve resource use. The key components are as follows:
  * Supports up to nine availability replicas. An _availability replica_ is an instantiation of an availability group that a specific instance of SQL Server hosts. It maintains a local copy of each availability database that belongs to the availability group. Each availability group supports one primary replica and up to eight secondary replicas. For more information, see [What is an Always On availability group?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17)
Each availability replica must reside on a different node of a single Windows Server Failover Clustering (WSFC) cluster. For more information about prerequisites, restrictions, and recommendations for availability groups, see [Prerequisites, restrictions, and recommendations for Always On availability groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/prereqs-restrictions-recommendations-always-on-availability?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Supports alternative availability modes, as follows:
    * _Asynchronous-commit mode_. This availability mode is a disaster-recovery solution that works well when the availability replicas are distributed over considerable distances.
    * _Synchronous-commit mode_. This availability mode emphasizes high availability and data protection over performance, at the cost of increased transaction latency. A given availability group can support up to five synchronous-commit availability replicas, including the current primary replica.
For more information, see [Differences between availability modes for an Always On availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/availability-modes-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Supports several forms of availability-group failover: automatic failover, planned manual failover (generally referred as _manual failover_), and forced manual failover (generally referred as _forced failover_). For more information, see [Failover and Failover Modes (Always On Availability Groups)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/failover-and-failover-modes-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Enables you to configure a given availability replica to support either or both of the following active-secondary capabilities:
    * Read-only connection access that enables read-only connections to the replica to access and read its databases when it's running as a secondary replica. For more information, see [Offload read-only workload to secondary replica of an Always On availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-readable-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
    * Performing backup operations on its databases when it's running as a secondary replica. For more information, see [Offload supported backups to secondary replicas of an availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-backup-on-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
Using active secondary capabilities improves your IT efficiency and reduces cost through better resource utilization of secondary hardware. In addition, offloading read-intent applications and backup jobs to secondary replicas helps to improve performance on the primary replica.
  * Supports an availability group listener for each availability group. An _availability group listener_ is a server name to which clients can connect, in order to access a database in a primary or secondary replica of an Always On availability group. Availability group listeners direct incoming connections to the primary replica or to a read-only secondary replica. The listener provides fast application failover after an availability group fails over. For more information, see [Connect to an Always On availability group listener](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/listeners-client-connectivity-application-failover?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Supports a flexible failover policy for greater control over availability-group failover. For more information, see [Failover and Failover Modes (Always On Availability Groups)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/failover-and-failover-modes-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Supports automatic page repair for protection against page corruption. For more information, see [Automatic Page Repair (Availability Groups: Database Mirroring)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/sql-server/failover-clusters/automatic-page-repair-availability-groups-database-mirroring?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * Supports encryption and compression, which provide a secure, high performing transport.
  * Provides an integrated set of tools to simplify deployment and management of availability groups, including:
    * Transact-SQL DDL statements for creating and managing availability groups. For more information, see [Transact-SQL statements for Always On availability groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/transact-sql-statements-for-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
    * SQL Server Management Studio tools, as follows:
      * The New Availability Group Wizard creates and configures an availability group. In some environments, this wizard can also automatically prepare the secondary databases and start data synchronization for each of them. For more information, see [Use the New Availability Group Dialog Box (SQL Server Management Studio)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/use-the-new-availability-group-dialog-box-sql-server-management-studio?view=sql-server-ver17).
      * The Add Database to Availability Group Wizard adds one or more primary databases to an existing availability group. In some environments, this wizard can also automatically prepare the secondary databases and start data synchronization for each of them. For more information, see [Add a database to an Always On availability group with the Availability Group Wizard](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/availability-group-add-database-to-group-wizard?view=sql-server-ver17).
      * The Add Replica to Availability Group Wizard adds one or more secondary replicas to an existing availability group. In some environments, this wizard can also automatically prepare the secondary databases and start data synchronization for each of them. For more information, see [Add a replica to your Always On availability group using the Availability Group Wizard in SQL Server Management Studio](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/use-the-add-replica-to-availability-group-wizard-sql-server-management-studio?view=sql-server-ver17).
      * The Fail Over Availability Group Wizard initiates a manual failover on an availability group. Depending on the configuration and state of the secondary replica that you specify as the failover target, the wizard can perform either a planned or forced manual failover. For more information, see [Use the Fail Over Availability Group Wizard (SQL Server Management Studio)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/use-the-fail-over-availability-group-wizard-sql-server-management-studio?view=sql-server-ver17).
    * The Always On Dashboard monitors Always On availability groups, availability replicas, and availability databases and evaluates results for Always On policies. For more information, see [Use the Always On Availability Group dashboard (SQL Server Management Studio)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/use-the-always-on-dashboard-sql-server-management-studio?view=sql-server-ver17).
    * The Object Explorer Details pane displays basic information about existing availability groups. For more information, see [Use Object Explorer Details to Monitor Availability Groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/use-object-explorer-details-to-monitor-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
    * PowerShell cmdlets. For more information, see [Overview of PowerShell Cmdlets for Always On Availability Groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-powershell-cmdlets-for-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17).


[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#client-connections)
