## Session-timeout period
The session-timeout period is an availability-replica property that determines how long a connection with another availability replica can remain inactive before the connection closes. The primary and secondary replicas ping each other to signal that they're still active. Receiving a ping from the other replica during the timeout period indicates that the connection is still open, and that the server instances are communicating. On receiving a ping, an availability replica resets its session-timeout counter on that connection.
The session-timeout period prevents either replica from waiting indefinitely to receive a ping from the other replica. If no ping is received from the other replica within the session-timeout period, the replica times out. Its connection closes, and the timed-out replica enters the `DISCONNECTED` state. Even if a disconnected replica is configured for synchronous-commit mode, transactions don't wait for that replica to reconnect and resynchronize.
The default session-timeout period for each availability replica is 10 seconds. You can configure this value, with a minimum of 5 seconds. Generally, keep the timeout period at 10 seconds or greater. Setting the value to less than 10 seconds creates the possibility of a heavily loaded system declaring a false failure.
In the resolving role, the session-timeout period doesn't apply because pinging doesn't occur.
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#automatic-page-repair)
