##  3.1.3. A note on shuffling[#](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/cross_validation.html#a-note-on-shuffling "Link to this heading")
If the data ordering is not arbitrary (e.g. samples with the same class label are contiguous), shuffling it first may be essential to get a meaningful cross-validation result. However, the opposite may be true if the samples are not independently and identically distributed. For example, if samples correspond to news articles, and are ordered by their time of publication, then shuffling the data will likely lead to a model that is overfit and an inflated validation score: it will be tested on samples that are artificially similar (close in time) to training samples.
Some cross validation iterators, such as [`KFold`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.KFold.html#sklearn.model_selection.KFold "sklearn.model_selection.KFold"), have an inbuilt option to shuffle the data indices before splitting them. Note that:
  * This consumes less memory than shuffling the data directly.
  * By default no shuffling occurs, including for the (stratified) K fold cross-validation performed by specifying `cv=some_integer` to [`cross_val_score`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.cross_val_score.html#sklearn.model_selection.cross_val_score "sklearn.model_selection.cross_val_score"), grid search, etc. Keep in mind that [`train_test_split`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split.html#sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split "sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split") still returns a random split.
  * The `random_state` parameter defaults to `None`, meaning that the shuffling will be different every time `KFold(..., shuffle=True)` is iterated. However, `GridSearchCV` will use the same shuffling for each set of parameters validated by a single call to its `fit` method.
  * To get identical results for each split, set `random_state` to an integer.


For more details on how to control the randomness of cv splitters and avoid common pitfalls, see [Controlling randomness](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/common_pitfalls.html#randomness).
