#  5.2. Design
##  5.2.1. Determining necessary utilities.
We can use the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) document to help find the names of utilities we need and where they reside in the directory structure. The FHS `/sbin` directory lists **fsck** and something called **fsck.*** for checking filesystems. Since we are using a Second Extended (ext2) filesystem the **fsck.*** becomes **fsck.ext2** for our purposes. Mounting filesystems is done using the commands **mount** and **umount** in the `/bin` directory. However, the name of a script to automatically mount local filesystems cannot be found. On most systems this type of script is in the `/etc` directory, but while FHS does list requirements for `/etc`, it does not currently make recommendations for startup scripts. Several GNU/Linux distributions use `/etc/init.d` as the place to hold startup scripts so we will put our filesystem mounting script there.
* * *
##  5.2.2. Finding source code
In the previous chapter we used manpages to help us find source code. In this chapter we will use a tool called the Linux Software Map (LSM). LSM is a database of GNU/Linux software that tracks such things as package name, author, names of binaries that make up the package and download sites. Using an LSM search engine we can locate packages using command names as keywords.
If we search Ibiblio's Linux Software Map (LSM) at **e2fsck** , **mke2fs** , **dumpe2fs** , **fsck** and more. We also find out that the LSM entry for e2fsprogs has not been updated for a while. There is almost certainly a newer version out there somewhere. Another good Internet resource for source code is SourceForge at
Finding **fsck** was quite an adventure, but now we can move on to finding **mount** and **umount**. A search on LSM comes up with a number of matches, but most of them point to various versions of a package called util-linux. All we have to do is scroll through and pick the most recent release. The LSM entry for util-linux lists a lot of utilities besides just mount and umount. We should definitely scan through the list to see if any of the other util-linux commands show up in the FHS requirements for `/bin` and `/sbin`.
Below is a list of packages we have gathered so far and the utilities that match up with FHS.
  * e2fsprogs -- **fsck** , **fsck.ext2** (**e2fsck**), **mkfs.ext2** (**mke2fs**)
  * util-linux -- **dmesg** , **getty** (**agetty**), **kill** , **login** , **mount** , **swapon** , **umount**


* * *
##  5.2.3. Automating fsck and mount
Now that we have **fsck** and **mount** commands we need to come up with a shell script to automate checking and mounting the local filesystems. An easy way to do this would be to write a short, two line script that calls **fsck** and then **mount**. But, what if the filesystems are not clean? The system should definitely not try to mount a corrupted filesystem. Therefore we need to devise a way of determining the status of the filesystems before mounting them. The manpage for **fsck** gives some insight into how this can be accomplished using return codes. Basically, if **fsck** returns a code of zero or one it means the filesystem is okay and a return code of two or greater means some kind of manual intervention is needed. A simple if-then statement could evaluate the **fsck** return code to determine whether or not the filesystem should be mounted. For help on writing shell scripts we can turn to the BASH(1) manpage and the Advanced-BASH-Scripting-Guide. Both references are freely available from the Linux Documentation Project web site at <http://www.tldp.org/>.
* * *
##  5.2.4. File dependencies
The last thing to do is to figure out if any other files besides the binaries are needed. We learned about using **ldd** to check for library dependencies in the last phase of the project and we will use it to check the utilities in this phase too. There are also some other files that **fsck** and **mount** will need and the fsck(8) and mount(8) manpages give some insight into what those files are. There is `/etc/fstab` that lists devices and their mount points, `/etc/mtab` that keeps track of what is mounted, and a number of `/dev` files that represent the various disks. We will need to include all of these to have everything work right.
* * *
###  5.2.4.1. /etc/fstab
The `/etc/fstab` file is just a simple text file that can be created with any editor. We will need an entry for the root filesystem and for the proc filesystem. Information about the format of this file can be found in the fstab(5) manpage or by looking at the `/etc/fstab` file on any of the popular GNU/Linux distributions.
* * *
###  5.2.4.2. /etc/mtab
The `/etc/mtab` file presents a unique challenge, because it does not contain static information like `fstab`. The `mtab` file tracks mounted filesystems and therefore its contents change from time to time. We are particularly interested in the state of `mtab` when the system first starts up, before any filesystems are mounted. At this point `/etc/mtab` should be empty so we will need to configure a startup script to create an empty `/etc/mtab` before any filesystems are mounted. But it is not possible to create any files in the `/etc` directory because `/` is read-only at startup. This creates a paradox. We cannot create an empty `mtab`, because the `/` filesystem is not mounted as writable and we should not mount any filesystems until we have created an empty `mtab`. In order to sidestep this problem we need to do the following:
  1. Remount `/` as read-write, but use the `-n` option so that **mount** does not attempt to write an entry to `/etc/mtab` which is read-only at this point.
  2. Create an empty `/etc/mtab` file now that the filesystem is writable.
  3. Remount `/` as read-write again, this time using the `-f` option so that an entry is written into `/etc/mtab`, but `/` is not actually mounted a second time.


* * *
###  5.2.4.3. Device files
The only thing left to do is to create device files. We will need `/dev/ram0`, because that is where the root filesystem is located. We also need `/dev/fd0` to mount other floppy disks and `/dev/null` for use by some of the system commands.
* * *
