##  3.2.2. Randomized Parameter Optimization[#](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/grid_search.html#randomized-parameter-optimization "Link to this heading")
While using a grid of parameter settings is currently the most widely used method for parameter optimization, other search methods have more favorable properties. [`RandomizedSearchCV`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV.html#sklearn.model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV "sklearn.model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV") implements a randomized search over parameters, where each setting is sampled from a distribution over possible parameter values. This has two main benefits over an exhaustive search:
  * A budget can be chosen independent of the number of parameters and possible values.
  * Adding parameters that do not influence the performance does not decrease efficiency.


Specifying how parameters should be sampled is done using a dictionary, very similar to specifying parameters for [`GridSearchCV`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.GridSearchCV.html#sklearn.model_selection.GridSearchCV "sklearn.model_selection.GridSearchCV"). Additionally, a computation budget, being the number of sampled candidates or sampling iterations, is specified using the `n_iter` parameter. For each parameter, either a distribution over possible values or a list of discrete choices (which will be sampled uniformly) can be specified:
```
{'C': scipy.stats.expon(scale=100), 'gamma': scipy.stats.expon(scale=.1),
  'kernel': ['rbf'], 'class_weight':['balanced', None]}

```
Copy to clipboard
This example uses the `scipy.stats` module, which contains many useful distributions for sampling parameters, such as `expon`, `gamma`, `uniform`, `loguniform` or `randint`.
In principle, any function can be passed that provides a `rvs` (random variate sample) method to sample a value. A call to the `rvs` function should provide independent random samples from possible parameter values on consecutive calls.
Warning
The distributions in `scipy.stats` prior to version scipy 0.16 do not allow specifying a random state. Instead, they use the global numpy random state, that can be seeded via `np.random.seed` or set using `np.random.set_state`. However, beginning scikit-learn 0.18, the [`sklearn.model_selection`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/api/sklearn.model_selection.html#module-sklearn.model_selection "sklearn.model_selection") module sets the random state provided by the user if scipy >= 0.16 is also available.
For continuous parameters, such as `C` above, it is important to specify a continuous distribution to take full advantage of the randomization. This way, increasing `n_iter` will always lead to a finer search.
A continuous log-uniform random variable is the continuous version of a log-spaced parameter. For example to specify the equivalent of `C` from above, `loguniform(1, 100)` can be used instead of `[1, 10, 100]`.
Mirroring the example above in grid search, we can specify a continuous random variable that is log-uniformly distributed between `1e0` and `1e3`:
```
from sklearn.utils.fixes import loguniform
{'C': loguniform(1e0, 1e3),
 'gamma': loguniform(1e-4, 1e-3),
 'kernel': ['rbf'],
 'class_weight':['balanced', None]}

```
Copy to clipboard
Examples
  * [Comparing randomized search and grid search for hyperparameter estimation](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/model_selection/plot_randomized_search.html#sphx-glr-auto-examples-model-selection-plot-randomized-search-py) compares the usage and efficiency of randomized search and grid search.


References
  * Bergstra, J. and Bengio, Y., Random search for hyper-parameter optimization, The Journal of Machine Learning Research (2012)
