#  9. Conventions used in this document
The following typographic and usage conventions occur in this text:
**Table 1. Typographic and usage conventions**
Text type | Meaning
---|---
"Quoted text" | Quotes from people, quoted computer output.
| ```
terminal view
```

---
Literal computer input and output captured from the terminal, usually rendered with a light grey background.
**command** | Name of a command that can be entered on the command line.
`VARIABLE` | Name of a variable or pointer to content of a variable, as in `$VARNAME`.
`option` | Option to a command, as in "the `-a` option to the **ls** command".
`_argument_` | Argument to a command, as in "read **man` _ls_`** ".
**command` options` `_arguments_`** | Command synopsis or general usage, on a separated line.
`filename` | Name of a file or directory, for example "Change to the `/usr/bin` directory."
**Key** | Keys to hit on the keyboard, such as "type **Q** to quit".
Button | Graphical button to click, like the OK button.
Menu->Choice | Choice to select from a graphical menu, for instance: "Select Help->About Mozilla in your browser."
_Terminology_ | Important term or concept: "The Linux _kernel_ is the heart of the system."
| ```
\
```

---
The backslash in a terminal view or command synopsis indicates an unfinished line. In other words, if you see a long command that is cut into multiple lines, \ means "Don't press **Enter** yet!"
See [Chapter 1](https://tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/Bash-Beginners-Guide.html#chap_01) | link to related subject within this guide.
| Clickable link to an external web resource.
* * *
