#  1.6. /etc
This is the nerve center of your system, it contains all system related configuration files in here or in its sub-directories. A "configuration file" is defined as a local file used to control the operation of a program; it must be static and cannot be an executable binary. For this reason, it's a good idea to backup this directory regularly. It will definitely save you a lot of re-configuration later if you re-install or lose your current installation. Normally, no binaries should be or are located here.

/etc/X11/

This directory tree contains all the configuration files for the X Window System. Users should note that many of the files located in this directory are actually symbolic links to the /usr/X11R6 directory tree. Thus, the presence of these files in these locations can not be certain.

/etc/X11/XF86Config, /etc/X11/XF86Config-4

The 'X' configuration file. Most modern distributions possess hardware autodetection systems that enable automatic creation of a valid file. Should autodetection fail a configuration file can also be created manually provided that you have sufficient knowledge about your system. It would be considered prudent not to attempt to type out a file from beginning to end. Rather, use common configuration utilities such as xf86config, XF86Setup and xf86cfg to create a workable template. Then, using suitable documentation commence optimization through intuition and/or trial and error. Options that can be configured via this file include X modules to be loaded on startup, keyboard, mouse, monitor and graphic chipset type. Often, commercial distributions will include their own X configuration utilities such as XDrake on Mandrake and also Xconfiguration on Redhat. Below is a sample X configuration file from the reference system
```

### BEGIN DEBCONF SECTION
# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 server configuration file) generated by dexconf, the
# Debian X Configuration tool, using values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# If you want your changes to this file preserved by dexconf, only
# make changes
# before the "### BEGIN DEBCONF SECTION" line above, and/or after the
# "### END DEBCONF SECTION" line below.
#
# To change things within the debconf section, run the command:
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
# as root.  Also see "How do I add custom sections to a dexconf-
# generated
# XF86Config or XF86Config-4 file?" in /usr/share/doc/xfree86-
# common/FAQ.gz.

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "unix/:7100"
# local font server
        # if the local font server has problems,
# we can fall back on these
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load        "GLcore"
        Load        "bitmap"
        Load        "dbe"
        Load        "ddc"
        Load        "dri"
        Load        "extmod"
        Load        "freetype"
        Load        "glx"
        Load        "int10"
        Load        "pex5"
        Load        "record"
        Load        "speedo"
        Load        "type1"
        Load        "vbe"
        Load        "xie"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier        "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver                "keyboard"
        Option                "CoreKeyboard"
        Option                "XkbRules"        "xfree86"
        Option                "XkbModel"        "pc104"
        Option                "XkbLayout"        "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier        "Configured Mouse"
        Driver                "mouse"
        Option                "CorePointer"
        Option                "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option                "Protocol"                "NetMousePS/2"
        Option                "Emulate3Buttons"        "true"
        Option                "ZAxisMapping"                "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier        "Generic Mouse"
        Driver                "mouse"
        Option                "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option                "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option                "Protocol"                "ImPS/2"
        Option                "Emulate3Buttons"        "true"
        Option                "ZAxisMapping"                "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier        "Generic Video Card"
        Driver                "nv"
#        Option                "UseFBDev"                "true"
        Option                "UseFBDev"                "false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier        "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync        30-38
        VertRefresh        43-95
        Option                "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier        "Default Screen"
        Device                "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor                "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth        16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                1
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                4
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                8
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                15
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                16
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                24
                Modes                "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier        "Default Layout"
        Screen                "Default Screen"
        InputDevice        "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice        "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice        "Generic Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode        0666
EndSection

### END DEBCONF SECTION

```

---
As you can see, the layout of the file is quite simple and tends to be quite standard across most distributions. At the top are the locations of the various font files for X (note - X will not start if you do not specify a valid font), next is the "Modules" section. It details what modules are to be loaded upon startup. The most well known extensions are probably GLX (required for 3D rendering of graphics and games) and Xinerama which allows users to expand their desktop over several monitors. Next are the various "Device" sections which describe the type of hardware you have. Improper configuration of these subsections can lead to heartache and trauma with seemingly misplaced keys, bewitched mice and also constant flashing as X attempts to restart in a sometimes never ending loop. In most cases when all else fails the vesa driver seems to be able to initialise most modern video cards. In the "Screen" section it is possible to alter the default startup resolution and depth. Quite often it is possible to alter these attributes on the fly by using the alt-ctrl-+ or alt-ctrl- set of keystrokes. Lastly are the "ServerLayout" and "DRI" sections. Users will almost never touch the "DRI" section and only those who wish to utilise the Xinerama extensions of X will require having to change any of the ServerLayout options.

/etc/X11/Xmodmap

In general your default keyboard mapping comes from your X server setup. If this setup is insufficient and you are unwilling to go through the process of reconfiguration and/or you are not the superuser you'll need to use the xmodmap program. This is the utility's global configuration file.

/etc/X11/xkb/

The various symbols, types, geometries of keymaps that the X server supports can be found in this directory tree.

/etc/X11/lbxproxy/

Low Bandwidth X (LBX) proxy server configuration files. Applications that would like to take advantage of the Low Bandwidth extension to X (LBX) must make their connections to an lbxproxy. These applications need know nothing about LBX, they simply connect to the lbxproxy as if it were a regular X server. The lbxproxy accepts client connections, multiplexes them over a single connection to the X server, and performs various optimizations on the X protocol to make it faster over low bandwidth and/or high latency connections. It should be noted that such compression will not increase the pace of rendering all that much. Its primary purpose is to reduce network load and thus increase overall network latency. A competing project called DXPC (Differential X Protocol Compression) has been found to be more efficient at this task. Studies have shown though that in almost all cases ssh tunneling of X will produce far better results than through any of these specialised pieces of software.

/etc/X11/proxymngr/

X proxy services manager initialisation files. proxymngr is responsible for resolving requests from xfindproxy (in the xbase-clients package) and other similar clients, starting new proxies when appropriate, and keeping track of all the available proxy services.

/etc/X11/xdm/

X display manager configuration files. xdm manages a collection of X servers, which may be on the local host or remote machines. It provides services similar to those provided by init, getty, and login on character-based terminals: prompting for login name and password, authenticating the user, and running a session. xdm supports XDMCP (X Display Manager Control Protocol) and can also be used to run a chooser process which presents the user with a menu of possible hosts that offer XDMCP display management. If the xutils package is installed, xdm can use the sessreg utility to register login sessions to the system utmp file; this, however, is not necessary for xdm to function.

/etc/X11/xdm/xdm-config

This is the master 'xdm' configuration file. It determines where all other 'xdm' configuration files will be located. It is almost certain to be left undisturbed.

/etc/X11/gdm/

GNOME Display Manager configuration files. gdm provides the equivalent of a "login:" prompt for X displays- it pops up a login window and starts an X session. It provides all the functionality of xdm, including XDMCP support for managing remote displays. The greeting window is written using the GNOME libraries and hence looks like a GNOME application- even to the extent of supporting themes! By default, the greeter is run as an unprivileged user for security.

/etc/X11/gdm/gdm.conf

This is the primary configuration file for GDM. Through it, users can specify whether they would like their system to automatically login as a certain user, background startup image and also if they would like to run their machine as somewhat of a terminal server by using the XDMCP protocol.

/etc/X11/fonts

Home of xfs fonts.

/etc/X11/fs/

X font server configuration files. xfs is a daemon that listens on a network port and serves X fonts to X servers (and thus to X clients). All X servers have the ability to serve locally installed fonts for themselves, but xfs makes it possible to offload that job from the X server, and/or have a central repository of fonts on a networked machine running xfs so that all the machines running X servers on a network do not require their own set of fonts. xfs may also be invoked by users to, for instance, make available X fonts in user accounts that are not available to the X server or to an already running system xfs.

/etc/X11/fs/config

This is the 'xfs' initialisation file. It specifies the number of clients that are allowed to connect to the 'xfs' server at any one time, the location of log files, default resolution, the location of the fonts, etc.
```

# font server configuration file
# $Xorg: config.cpp,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:54:19 cpqbld Exp $

# allow a maximum of 10 clients to connect to this font server
client-limit = 10
# when a font server reaches its limit, start up a new one
clone-self = on
# log messages to /var/log/xfs.log (if syslog is not used)
error-file = /var/log/xfs.log
# log errors using syslog
use-syslog = on
# turn off TCP port listening (Unix domain connections are still permitted)
no-listen = tcp
# paths to search for fonts
catalogue = /usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic/,
/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled,
/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID,
/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/,
/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/
# in decipoints
default-point-size = 120
# x1,y1,x2,y2,...
default-resolutions = 100,100,75,75

# font cache control, specified in kB
cache-hi-mark = 2048
cache-low-mark = 1433
cache-balance = 70

```

---

/etc/X11/twm

Home of configuration files for twm. The original Tabbed Window Manager.

/etc/X11/xinit/

xinit configuration files. 'xinit' is a configuration method of starting up an X session that is designed to used as part of a script. Normally, this is used at larger sites as part of a tailored login process.

/etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc

Global xinitrc file, used by all X sessions started by xinit (startx). Its usage is of course overridden by a .xinitrc file located in the home directory of a user.

/etc/adduser.conf

'adduser' configuration. The adduser command can create new users, groups and add existing users to existing groups. Adding users with adduser is much easier than adding them by hand. Adduser will choose appropriate UID and GID values, create a home directory, copy skeletal user configuration from /etc/skel, allow you to set an initial password and the GECOS field. Optionally a custom script can be executed after this commands. See adduser(8) and adduser.conf(5) for full documentation.

/etc/adjtime

Has parameters to help adjust the software (kernel) time so that it matches the RTC.

/etc/aliases

This is the aliases file - it says who gets mail for whom. It was originally generated by `eximconfig', part of the exim package distributed with Debian, but it may edited by the mail system administrator. See exim info section for details of the things that can be configured here. An aliases database file (aliases.db) is built from the entries in the aliases files by the newaliases utility.

/etc/alternatives

It is possible for several programs fulfilling the same or similar functions to be installed on a single system at the same time. For example, many systems have several text editors installed at once. This gives choice to the users of a system, allowing each to use a different editor, if desired, but makes it difficult for a program to make a good choice of editor to invoke if the user has not specified a particular preference.
The alternatives system aims to solve this problem. A generic name in the filesystem is shared by all files providing interchangeable functionality. The alternatives system and the system administrator together determine which actual file is referenced by this generic name. For example, if the text editors ed(1) and nvi(1) are both installed on the system, the alternatives system will cause the generic name /usr/bin/editor to refer to /usr/bin/nvi by default. The system administrator can override this and cause it to refer to /usr/bin/ed instead, and the alternatives system will not alter this setting until explicitly requested to do so.
The generic name is not a direct symbolic link to the selected alternative. Instead, it is a symbolic link to a name in the alternatives directory, which in turn is a symbolic link to the actual file referenced. This is done so that the system administrator's changes can be confined within the /etc directory.

/etc/apt

This is Debian's next generation front-end for the dpkg package manager. It provides the apt-get utility and APT dselect method that provides a simpler, safer way to install and upgrade packages. APT features complete installation ordering, multiple source capability and several other unique features, see the Users Guide in /usr/share/doc/apt/guide.text.gz

/etc/apt/sources.list
 ```

deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-7 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-6 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-5 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-4 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-3 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-2 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-1 (20020718)]/
          unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
