## Active secondary replicas
Always On availability groups supports active secondary replicas. Active secondary capabilities include support for:
  * **Performing backup operations on secondary replicas**
The secondary replicas support performing log backups and [copy-only](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-backup-on-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17) backups of a full database, file, or filegroup. You can configure the availability group to specify a preference for where backups should be performed. It's important to understand that SQL Server doesn't enforce the preference, so it has no effect on ad hoc backups. The interpretation of this preference depends on the logic, if any, that you script into your backup jobs for each of the databases in a given availability group. For an individual availability replica, you can specify your priority for performing backups on this replica relative to the other replicas in the same availability group. For more information, see [Offload supported backups to secondary replicas of an availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-backup-on-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * **Read-only access to one or more secondary replicas (readable secondary replicas)**
You can configure any secondary availability replica to allow only read-only access to its local databases, though some operations aren't fully supported. This configuration prevents read-write connection attempts to the secondary replica. It's also possible to prevent read-only workloads on the _primary_ replica by only allowing read-write access. This configuration prevents read-only connections from being made to the primary replica. For more information, see [Offload read-only workload to secondary replica of an Always On availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-readable-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
If an availability group currently has an availability group listener and one or more readable secondary replicas, SQL Server can route read-intent connection requests to one of them (_read-only routing_). For more information, see [Connect to an Always On availability group listener](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/listeners-client-connectivity-application-failover?view=sql-server-ver17).


[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#session-timeout-period)
