## Availability databases
To add a database to an availability group, the database must be an online, read-write database that exists on the server instance that hosts the primary replica. When you add a database, it joins the availability group as a primary database, while remaining available to clients. No corresponding secondary database exists until you restore backups of the new primary database to the server instance that hosts the secondary replica (using `RESTORE WITH NORECOVERY`). The new secondary database is in the `RESTORING` state until it's joined to the availability group. For more information, see [Start Data Movement on an Always On Secondary Database (SQL Server)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/start-data-movement-on-an-always-on-secondary-database-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17).
Joining places the secondary database into the `ONLINE` state and initiates data synchronization with the corresponding primary database. _Data synchronization_ is the process by which changes to a primary database are reproduced on a secondary database. Data synchronization involves the primary database sending transaction log records to the secondary database.
An availability database is sometimes called a _database replica_ in Transact-SQL, PowerShell, and SQL Server Management Objects (SMO) names. For example, the term "database replica" is used in the names of the Always On dynamic management views that return information about availability databases: `sys.dm_hadr_database_replica_states` and `sys.dm_hadr_database_replica_cluster_states`. However, in SQL Server Books Online, the term "replica" typically refers to availability replicas. For example, "primary replica" and "secondary replica" always refer to availability replicas.
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#availability-replicas)
