## Availability modes
Each availability replica has an availability mode property. The availability mode determines whether the primary replica waits to commit transactions on a database until a given secondary replica writes the transaction log records to disk (hardens the log). Always On availability groups supports two availability modes: _asynchronous-commit mode_ and _synchronous-commit mode_.
  * **Asynchronous-commit mode**
An availability replica that uses this availability mode is known as an _asynchronous-commit replica_. Under asynchronous-commit mode, the primary replica commits transactions without waiting for acknowledgment from asynchronous-commit secondary replicas to harden their transaction logs. Asynchronous-commit mode minimizes transaction latency on the secondary databases but allows them to lag behind the primary databases, making some data loss possible.
  * **Synchronous-commit mode**
An availability replica that uses this availability mode is known as a _synchronous-commit replica_. Under synchronous-commit mode, before committing transactions, a synchronous-commit primary replica waits for a synchronous-commit secondary replica to acknowledge that it finished hardening the log. Synchronous-commit mode ensures that once a given secondary database is synchronized with the primary database, committed transactions are fully protected. This protection comes at the cost of increased transaction latency. Optionally, SQL Server 2017 (14.x) introduced a _required synchronized secondaries_ feature to further increase safety at the cost of latency when desired. The `REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT` feature can be enabled to require a specified number of synchronous replicas to commit a transaction before a primary replica is allowed to commit.


For more information, see [Differences between availability modes for an Always On availability group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/availability-modes-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#types-of-failover)
