## Availability replicas
Each availability group defines a set of two or more failover partners known as availability replicas. _Availability replicas_ are components of the availability group. Each availability replica hosts a copy of the availability databases in the availability group. For a given availability group, separate instances of SQL Server residing on different nodes of a WSFC cluster must host the availability replicas. Each of these server instances must be enabled for Always On.
SQL Server 2019 (15.x) increases the maximum number of synchronous replicas to 5, up from 3 in SQL Server 2017 (14.x). You can configure this group of five replicas to have automatic failover within the group. There's one primary replica, plus four synchronous secondary replicas.
A given instance can host only one availability replica per availability group. However, you can use each instance for many availability groups. A given instance can be either a stand-alone instance or a SQL Server failover cluster instance (FCI). If you require server-level redundancy, use Failover Cluster Instances.
Every availability replica is assigned an initial role - either the _primary role_ or the _secondary role_ , which the availability databases of that replica inherit. The role of a given replica determines whether it hosts read-write databases or read-only databases. One replica, known as the _primary replica_ , is assigned the primary role and hosts read-write databases, which are known as _primary databases_. At least one other replica, known as a _secondary replica_ , is assigned the secondary role. A secondary replica hosts read-only databases, known as secondary databases.
When the role of an availability replica is indeterminate, such as during a failover, its databases are temporarily in a `NOT SYNCHRONIZING` state. Their role is set to `RESOLVING` until the role of the availability replica resolves. If an availability replica resolves to the primary role, its databases become the primary databases. If an availability replica resolves to the secondary role, its databases become secondary databases.
[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#availability-modes)
