## Types of failover
Within the context of a session between the primary replica and a secondary replica, the primary and secondary roles can switch in a process known as _failover_. During a failover, the target secondary replica transitions to the primary role and becomes the new primary replica. The new primary replica brings its databases online as the primary databases, and client applications can connect to them. When the former primary replica is available, it changes to the secondary role and becomes a secondary replica. The former primary databases become secondary databases and data synchronization resumes.
An availability group fails over at the level of an availability replica. Failovers don't happen because of database issues such as a database becoming suspect due to a loss of a data file, deletion of a database, or corruption of a transaction log.
Three forms of failover exist: automatic, manual, and forced (with possible data loss). The form or forms of failover that a given secondary replica supports depends on its availability mode. For synchronous-commit mode, it also depends on the failover mode on the primary replica and target secondary replica, as follows.
  * Synchronous-commit mode supports two forms of failover: _planned manual failover_ and _automatic failover_ , if the target secondary replica is currently synchronized with the primary replica. The setting of the _failover mode property_ on the failover partners determines support for these forms of failover. If you set the failover mode to **manual** on either the primary or secondary replica, the secondary replica supports only manual failover. If you set the failover mode to **automatic** on both the primary and secondary replicas, the secondary replica supports both automatic and manual failover.
    * **Planned manual failover** (without data loss)
A manual failover happens after a database administrator issues a failover command. It causes a synchronized secondary replica to transition to the primary role (with guaranteed data protection) and the primary replica to change to the secondary role. A manual failover requires that both the primary replica and the target secondary replica run under synchronous-commit mode, and the secondary replica must already be synchronized.
    * **Automatic failover** (without data loss)
An automatic failover happens in response to a failure. It causes a synchronized secondary replica to transition to the primary role (with guaranteed data protection). When the former primary replica becomes available, it changes to the secondary role. Automatic failover requires that both the primary replica and the target secondary replica run under synchronous-commit mode with the failover mode set to _Automatic_. In addition, the secondary replica must already be synchronized, have WSFC quorum, and meet the conditions specified by the [flexible failover policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/configure-flexible-automatic-failover-policy?view=sql-server-ver17) of the availability group.
  * Under asynchronous-commit mode, the only form of failover is forced manual failover (with possible data loss), typically called _forced failover_. Forced failover is a form of manual failover because you must initiate it manually. Forced failover is a disaster recovery option. It's the only form of failover that's possible when the target secondary replica isn't synchronized with the primary replica.


For more information, see [Failover and Failover Modes (Always On Availability Groups)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/failover-and-failover-modes-always-on-availability-groups?view=sql-server-ver17).
  * SQL Server Failover Cluster Instances (FCIs) don't support automatic failover by availability groups, so you can only configure manual failover for any availability replica that an FCI hosts.
  * If you issue a forced failover command on a synchronized secondary replica, the secondary replica behaves the same as for a planned manual failover.


[](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/availability-groups/windows/overview-of-always-on-availability-groups-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17#benefits)
