##  5.10.4. Creating a filesystem
Filesystems are created, i.e., initialized, with the **mkfs** command. There is actually a separate program for each filesystem type. **mkfs** is just a front end that runs the appropriate program depending on the desired filesystem type. The type is selected with the `-t fstype` option.
The programs called by **mkfs** have slightly different command line interfaces. The common and most important options are summarized below; see the manual pages for more.

**`-t fstype`**

Select the type of the filesystem.

**`-c`**

Search for bad blocks and initialize the bad block list accordingly.

**-l filename**

Read the initial bad block list from the name file.
There are also many programs written to add specific options when creating a specific filesystem. For example **mkfs.ext3** adds a **-b** option to allow the administrator to specify what block size should be used. Be sure to find out if there is a specific program available for the filesystem type you want to use. For more information on determining what block size to use please see [Section 5.10.5](https://tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/sag.html#FS-BLOCK-SIZE).
To create an ext2 filesystem on a floppy, one would give the following commands:
```
`$` `**fdformat -n /dev/fd0H1440**`
`Double-sided, 80 tracks, 18 sec/track. Total capacity
1440 KB.
Formatting ... done`
`$` `**badblocks /dev/fd0H1440 1440 $>$
bad-blocks**`
`$` `**mkfs.ext2 -l bad-blocks
/dev/fd0H1440**`
`mke2fs 0.5a, 5-Apr-94 for EXT2 FS 0.5, 94/03/10
360 inodes, 1440 blocks
72 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=1
Block size=1024 (log=0)
Fragment size=1024 (log=0)
1 block group
8192 blocks per group, 8192 fragments per group
360 inodes per group

Writing inode tables: done
Writing superblocks and filesystem accounting information:
done`
`$`
```

---
First, the floppy was formatted (the` -n` option prevents validation, i.e., bad block checking). Then bad blocks were searched with **badblocks** , with the output redirected to a file, `bad-blocks`. Finally, the filesystem was created, with the bad block list initialized by whatever **badblocks** found.
The `-c` option could have been used with **mkfs** instead of **badblocks** and a separate file. The example below does that.
```
`$` `**mkfs.ext2 -c
/dev/fd0H1440**`
`mke2fs 0.5a, 5-Apr-94 for EXT2 FS 0.5, 94/03/10
360 inodes, 1440 blocks
72 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=1
Block size=1024 (log=0)
Fragment size=1024 (log=0)
1 block group
8192 blocks per group, 8192 fragments per group
360 inodes per group

Checking for bad blocks (read-only test): done
Writing inode tables: done
Writing superblocks and filesystem accounting information:
done`
`$`
```

---
The` -c` option is more convenient than a separate use of **badblocks** , but **badblocks** is necessary for checking after the filesystem has been created.
The process to prepare filesystems on hard disks or partitions is the same as for floppies, except that the formatting isn't needed.
* * *
