##  [Domain ownership and Project assignment](https://vercel.com/docs/domains/working-with-domains#domain-ownership-and-project-assignment)[](https://vercel.com/docs/domains/working-with-domains#domain-ownership-and-project-assignment)
When you are using domains with Vercel, there are two areas of the dashboard that you may need to go to in order to configure them correctly. The first relates to your ownership and the second relates to configuring the domain for your Project:
  * Domain ownership: Domains are owned by a specific team and can be accessed from the [Domains section in the sidebar on your team's dashboard](https://vercel.com/d?to=%2F%5Bteam%5D%2F%7E%2Fdomains&title=Go+to+team%27s+domains+page). All your domains, regardless of where they are registered, are _listed_ here and are owned by the owner of the team. If you are using Vercel's nameservers, which is the case by default if you buy your domain through Vercel, you can manage DNS records, custom nameservers, and SSL certificates here. Domains that are registered by a third-party should manage DNS records and nameservers with the third-party.
  * Project assignment: This is accessed by selecting the project that you wish to assign the domain to and navigating to Settings > Domains. From here you can add an apex domain or subdomain to the Project. When a user visits your domain, they will see the most recent production deployment of your site, unless you [assign the domain to a Git branch](https://vercel.com/docs/domains/working-with-domains/assign-domain-to-a-git-branch) or [add redirection](https://vercel.com/docs/domains/deploying-and-redirecting).


When you add a domain to Vercel for the first time, it will appear as an **apex domain** in your team's **Domains** tab. If you add that domain (for example, `yourdomain.com`, or `docs.yourdomain.com`) to a project on a different Vercel team, that domain will require a TXT Verification step and will only show up at the project level. The **apex domain** will still appear in the original account's **Domains** tab.
