## 1. Too Many Good Distros to Choose From
Reading online forums (a part of my hobby), I often come across questions like, “**Hi, I am new to Linux, just[switched over from Windows](https://www.tecmint.com/switched-from-windows-to-linux-mint/ "Switched from Windows to Linux Mint"). Which Linux Distribution should I use? Oh, and I am an Engineering Student.**”
When such questions are posted, there is a flood of comments. Each distribution’s fan tries to prove that their choice is superior.
Some typical comments include:
  * “Try **Linux Mint** or **Ubuntu** , they are easy to use, especially for newbies.”
  * “**Ubuntu** is terrible, go with **Mint**.”
  * “If you want something like **Windows** , better stay there.”
  * “Nothing is better than **Debian**. It is easy to use and contains all the packages you may need.”
  * “Learn **Slackware** ; if you learn Slack, you learn Linux.”
  * “**CentOS** is unparalleled when it comes to stability.”
  * “I recommend **Fedora** for bleeding-edge technology; you’ll learn a lot.”
  * “Puppy Linux, SUSE, BSD, Manjaro, Mageia, Kali, RedHat Beta, etc.”


At the end of the discussion, the person asking the question often feels confused and annoyed.
In contrast, consider the same scenario with **Windows** or **Mac**. Someone might say, “**Are you still using Windows** ” but no one would aggressively argue that **Windows** is better. Mac users typically don’t jump into discussions just to make their point louder.
This situation is not only true in online forums but sometimes extends into the corporate world as well.
For instance, I was recently interviewed by a company based in Mumbai (India). The interviewer asked me several questions about technologies I have worked with.
Although I met nearly half of their requirements, the conversation took a strange turn:
**Interviewer** | **Me**
---|---
“Do you know kernel editing? Wait, no, not kernel editing. Do you know how to compile a kernel on a monolithic side?” | “Yes, we just need to ensure that we select the necessary options before compiling the kernel.”
“How do you compile a kernel?” | “I used `make menuconfig` to…”
(interrupting) “When was the last time you compiled a kernel without any help?” | “Recently, on my Debian…”
(interrupting) “Debian? We use CentOS. Ok, I will tell the management the result. They will call you.”
I didn’t get the job, and the interviewer’s dismissive tone left me thinking. He could have simply said, “We use **CentOS** ,” but his tone was a bit off-putting.
