#  2.2. Who Needs to Know About Your Organization?
Now that you know what you want to do, the second step is to determine who you need to talk to.
The best way to gain insight into this question is to look from the other side of the communications channel: Of all the people that your organization deals with, who do you need to tell about new programs and products? Often your most important contacts will be your current and future partners, IT professionals in your local area, human resource managers, training and development personnel, and organizations offering competing products.
To reach your organization's public relations goals, there are many key audiences and stakeholders that your organization should regularly communicate with to gain higher visibility. The following list details a few of the most important audiences:
  * _News media._ Includes print, radio, television, and Internet outlets for business news, information technology news especially related to Linux and open source, vertical media (directed at a people with similar interests such as a hobby or business), human resources, colleges and universities, and organizations and enterprises dealing with Linux or Linux information management solutions.
  * _IT professionals._ Includes practicing IT professionals, students, and prospects such as people considering a career change.
  * _Influencers._
  * _Other LPI affiliates._
  * _Business partners and suppliers._ Includes communicating to strategic partners such as independent software vendors, training providers, and suppliers, which helps your organization become a valued business partner to these groups, each of which bring specific value to your business.


* * *
