#  2.4. What Kind of Information is Newsworthy?
These are examples of great happenings that generate interest.
  * _Locations and launches._ This kind of news is obvious. For instance, a new branch of your organization may have just opened, and you want to make people aware of the new location and offerings. Also, if you are launching a new product or have hired a local figure well-known to the Linux community, these things are of great interest to the public.
  * _Industry developments and human interest._ Sometimes newsworthy information is a little less obvious. Every day happenings can be in the news. Whenever there are changes or new developments in the industry, this clearly presents an opportunity for positive exposure and media coverage in appropriate publications. For instance, how and why the change is being undertaken may become a story in itself. Perhaps the change is being driven by a dynamic Linux guru, worthy of a magazine profile. Sometimes these stories are called "case studies" and typically are given favourable consideration by editors because of their considerable human interest appeal.
  * _Numerical data and trends._ Society is fascinated with numbers. The more impressive or interesting the figures (relative to competitors and the rest of the industry), the more likely media outlets are to use those numbers in their reporting.
  * _Organizational announcements._ Notable changes in staff or volunteers are another way of getting media exposure. The more important the position, the more newsworthy organizational announcements become.
  * _Partnerships._ Especially partnerships with far-reaching effects across the industry create a major news story.
  * _Industry recognition._ When your organization wins an award or is recognized by peers, let the world know!


The bottom line is that you can find news in almost any event. Your responsibility is to ensure that your organization becomes known and respected by editors, journalists, educators, and other stakeholders with whom you are communicating. Remember, the more respected your organization is, the more (and better) coverage you are likely to receive. The determining factor in that judgment will be the audience—the readers, viewers, and listeners who you reach.
Effective and well-organized public relations efforts require news releases and correspondences to reach an appropriate editor. [Chapter 3](https://tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Media-Guide/html/Linux-Media-Guide.html#contacting_media) details what you need to do to get news media contacts and, ultimately, positive visibility.
* * *
