##  2.1.5. Using the accelerator keys
You can avoid using a mouse for navigating the EVMS GUI by using a series of key strokes, or "accelerator keys," instead. The following sections tell how to use accelerator keys in the EVMS Main Window, the Selection Window, and the Configuration Options Window.
* * *
###  2.1.5.1. Main Window accelerator keys
In the Main Window view, use the following keys to navigate:
**Table 2-1. Accelerator keys in the Main Window**
Left and right arrow keys | Navigate between the notebook tabs of the different views.
---|---
Down arrow and **Spacebar** | Bring keyboard focus into the view.
While in a view, use the following keys to navigate:
**Table 2-2. Accelerator keys in the views**
up and down arrows | Allow movement around the window.
---|---
"+" | Opens an object tree.
"-" | Collapses an object tree.
**ENTER** | Brings up the context menu (on a row).
Arrows | Navigate a context menu.
**ENTER** | Activates an item.
**ESC** | Dismisses the context menu.
**Tab** | Gets you out of the view and moves you back up to the notebook tab.
To access the action bar menu, press **Alt** and then the underlined accelerator key for the menu choice (for example, "A" for the Actions dropdown menu).
In a dropdown menu, you can use the up and down arrows to navigate. You could also just type the accelerator key for the menu item, which is the character with the underscore. For example, to initiate a command to delete a container, type **Alt** + "A" + "D" + "C."
**Ctrl-S** is a shortcut to initiate saving changes. **Ctrl-Q** is a shortcut to initiate quitting the EVMS GUI.
* * *
###  2.1.5.2. Accelerator keys in the selection window
A selection window typically contains a selection list, plus four to five buttons below it. Use the following keys to navigate in the selection window:
**Table 2-3. Accelerator keys in the selection window**
**Tab** | Navigates (changes keyboard focus) between the list and the buttons.
---|---
Up and down arrows | Navigates within the selection list.
**Spacebar** | Selects and deselects items in the selection list.
**Enter** on the button or type the accelerator character (if one exists) | Activates a button
* * *
###  2.1.5.3. Configuration options window accelerator keys
Use the following keys to navigate in the configuration options window:
**Table 2-4. Accelerator keys in the configuration options window**
**Tab** | Cycles focus between fields and buttons
---|---
Left and right arrows | Navigate the folder tabs if the window has a widget notebook.
**Spacebar** or the down arrow | Switches focus to a different notebook page.
**Enter** or type the accelerator character (if one exists) | Activates a button
For widgets, use the following keys to navigate:
**Table 2-5. Widget navigation keys in the configuration options window**
**Tab** | Cycles forward through a set of widgets
---|---
**Shift-Tab** | Cycles backward through a set of widgets.
The widget navigation, selection, and activation is the same in all dialog windows.
* * *
