##  2.2.1. Navigating through EVMS Ncurses
The EVMS Ncurses user interface initially displays a list of logical volumes similar to the logical volumes view in the EVMS GUI. Ncurses also provides a menu bar similar to the menu bar in the EVMS GUI.
A general guide to navigating through the layout of the Ncurses window is listed below:
  * **Tab** cycles you through the available views.
  * Status messages and tips are displayed on the last line of the screen.
  * Typing the accelerator character (the letter highlighted in red) for any menu item activates that item. For example, typing **A** in any view brings down the Actions menu.
  * Typing **A** + **Q** in a view quits the application.
  * Typing **A** + **S** in a view saves changes made during an **evmsn** session.
  * Use the **up** and **down** arrows to highlight an object in a view. Pressing **Enter** while an object in a view is highlighted presents a context popup menu.
  * Dismiss a context popup menu by pressing **Esc** or by selecting a menu item with the **up** and **down** arrows and pressing **Enter** to activate the menu item.


Dialog windows are similar in design to the EVMS GUI dialogs, which allow a user to navigate forward and backward through a series of dialogs using Next and Previous. A general guide to dialog windows is listed below:
  * **Tab** cycles you through the available buttons. Note that some buttons might not be available until a valid selection is made.
  * The **left** and **right** arrows can also be used to move to an available button.
  * Navigate a selection list with the **up** and **down** arrows.
  * Toggle the selection of an item in a list with **spacebar**.
  * Activate a button that has the current focus with **Enter**. If the button has an accelerator character (highlighted in red), you can also activate the button by typing the accelerator character regardless of whether the button has the current focus.


The EVMS Ncurses user interface, like the EVMS GUI, provides context menus for actions that are available only to the selected object in a view. Ncurses also provides context menus for items that are available from the Actions menu. These context menus present a list of commands available for a certain object.
* * *
