## Introduction[¶](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide#Introduction)
This guide is intended to aid advanced Go users in better understanding their application costs by providing insights into the Go garbage collector. It also provides guidance on how Go users may use these insights to improve their applications' resource utilization. It does not assume any knowledge of garbage collection, but does assume familiarity with the Go programming language.
The Go language takes responsibility for arranging the storage of Go values; in most cases, a Go developer need not care about where these values are stored, or why, if at all. In practice, however, these values often need to be stored in computer **physical memory** and physical memory is a finite resource. Because it is finite, memory must be managed carefully and recycled in order to avoid running out of it while executing a Go program. It's the job of a Go implementation to allocate and recycle memory as needed.
Another term for automatically recycling memory is **garbage collection**. At a high level, a garbage _collector_ (or GC, for short) is a system that recycles memory on behalf of the application by identifying which parts of memory are no longer needed. The Go standard toolchain provides a runtime library that ships with every application, and this runtime library includes a garbage collector.
Note that the existence of a garbage collector as described by this guide is not guaranteed by the [Go specification](https://go.dev/ref/spec), only that the underlying storage for Go values is managed by the language itself. This omission is intentional and enables the use of radically different memory management techniques.
Therefore, this guide is about a specific implementation of the Go programming language and _may not apply to other implementations_. Specifically, this following guide applies to the standard toolchain (the `gc` Go compiler and tools). Gccgo and Gollvm both use a very similar GC implementation so many of the same concepts apply, but details may vary.
Furthermore, this is a living document and will change over time to best reflect the latest release of Go. This document currently describes the garbage collector as of Go 1.19.
### Where Go Values Live[¶](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide#Where_Go_Values_Live)
Before we dive into the GC, let's first discuss the memory that doesn't need to be managed by the GC.
For instance, non-pointer Go values stored in local variables will likely not be managed by the Go GC at all, and Go will instead arrange for memory to be allocated that's tied to the [lexical scope](https://go.dev/ref/spec#Declarations_and_scope) in which it's created. In general, this is more efficient than relying on the GC, because the Go compiler is able to predetermine when that memory may be freed and emit machine instructions that clean up. Typically, we refer to allocating memory for Go values this way as "stack allocation," because the space is stored on the goroutine stack.
Go values whose memory cannot be allocated this way, because the Go compiler cannot determine its lifetime, are said to _escape to the heap_. "The heap" can be thought of as a catch-all for memory allocation, for when Go values need to be placed _somewhere_. The act of allocating memory on the heap is typically referred to as "dynamic memory allocation" because both the compiler and the runtime can make very few assumptions as to how this memory is used and when it can be cleaned up. That's where a GC comes in: it's a system that specifically identifies and cleans up dynamic memory allocations.
There are many reasons why a Go value might need to escape to the heap. One reason could be that its size is dynamically determined. Consider for instance the backing array of a slice whose initial size is determined by a variable, rather than a constant. Note that escaping to the heap must also be transitive: if a reference to a Go value is written into another Go value that has already been determined to escape, that value must also escape.
Whether a Go value escapes or not is a function of the context in which it is used and the Go compiler's escape analysis algorithm. It would be fragile and difficult to try to enumerate precisely when values escape: the algorithm itself is fairly sophisticated and changes between Go releases. For more details on how to identify which values escape and which do not, see the section on [eliminating heap allocations](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide#Eliminating_heap_allocations).
### Tracing Garbage Collection[¶](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide#Tracing_Garbage_Collection)
Garbage collection may refer to many different methods of automatically recycling memory; for example, reference counting. In the context of this document, garbage collection refers to **tracing** garbage collection, which identifies in-use, so-called **live** , objects by following pointers transitively.
Let's define these terms more rigorously.
  * **Object** —An object is a dynamically allocated piece of memory that contains one or more Go values.
  * **Pointer** —A memory address that references any value within an object. This naturally includes Go values of the form `*T`, but also includes parts of built-in Go values. Strings, slices, channels, maps, and interface values all contain memory addresses that the GC must trace.


Together, objects and pointers to other objects form the **object graph**. To identify live memory, the GC walks the object graph starting at the program's **roots** , pointers that identify objects that are definitely in-use by the program. Two examples of roots are local variables and global variables. The process of walking the object graph is referred to as **scanning**. Another phrase you might see in the Go documentation is whether an object is **reachable** , which just means that the object can be discovered by the scanning process. Note also that, [with one exception](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide#Finalizers_cleanups_and_weak_pointers), once memory becomes unreachable, it stays unreachable.
This basic algorithm is common to all tracing GCs. Where tracing GCs differ is what they do once they discover memory is live. Go's GC uses the mark-sweep technique, which means that in order to keep track of its progress, the GC also **marks** the values it encounters as live. Once tracing is complete, the GC then walks over all memory in the heap and makes all memory that is _not_ marked available for allocation. This process is called **sweeping**.
One alternative technique you may be familiar with is to actually _move_ the objects to a new part of memory and leave behind a forwarding pointer that is later used to update all the application's pointers. We call a GC that moves objects in this way a **moving** GC; Go has a **non-moving** GC.
