## Priority A Rules: Essential[​](https://redux.js.org/style-guide#priority-a-rules-essential "Direct link to Priority A Rules: Essential")
### Do Not Mutate State[​](https://redux.js.org/style-guide#do-not-mutate-state "Direct link to Do Not Mutate State")
Mutating state is the most common cause of bugs in Redux applications, including components failing to re-render properly, and will also break time-travel debugging in the Redux DevTools. **Actual mutation of state values should always be avoided** , both inside reducers and in all other application code.
Use tools such as
> **Note** : it is okay to modify _copies_ of existing values - that is a normal part of writing immutable update logic. Also, if you are using the Immer library for immutable updates, writing "mutating" logic is acceptable because the real data isn't being mutated - Immer safely tracks changes and generates immutably-updated values internally.
### Reducers Must Not Have Side Effects[​](https://redux.js.org/style-guide#reducers-must-not-have-side-effects "Direct link to Reducers Must Not Have Side Effects")
Reducer functions should _only_ depend on their `state` and `action` arguments, and should only calculate and return a new state value based on those arguments. **They must not execute any kind of asynchronous logic (AJAX calls, timeouts, promises), generate random values (`Date.now()` , `Math.random()`), modify variables outside the reducer, or run other code that affects things outside the scope of the reducer function**.
> **Note** : It is acceptable to have a reducer call other functions that are defined outside of itself, such as imports from libraries or utility functions, as long as they follow the same rules.
#### Detailed Explanation
The purpose of this rule is to guarantee that reducers will behave predictably when called. For example, if you are doing time-travel debugging, reducer functions may be called many times with earlier actions to produce the "current" state value. If a reducer has side effects, this would cause those effects to be executed during the debugging process, and result in the application behaving in unexpected ways.
There are some gray areas to this rule. Strictly speaking, code such as `console.log(state)` is a side effect, but in practice has no effect on how the application behaves.
### Do Not Put Non-Serializable Values in State or Actions[​](https://redux.js.org/style-guide#do-not-put-non-serializable-values-in-state-or-actions "Direct link to Do Not Put Non-Serializable Values in State or Actions")
**Avoid putting non-serializable values such as Promises, Symbols, Maps/Sets, functions, or class instances into the Redux store state or dispatched actions**. This ensures that capabilities such as debugging via the Redux DevTools will work as expected. It also ensures that the UI will update as expected.
> **Exception** : you may put non-serializable values in actions _if_ the action will be intercepted and stopped by a middleware before it reaches the reducers. Middleware such as `redux-thunk` and `redux-promise` are examples of this.
### Only One Redux Store Per App[​](https://redux.js.org/style-guide#only-one-redux-store-per-app "Direct link to Only One Redux Store Per App")
**A standard Redux application should only have a single Redux store instance, which will be used by the whole application**. It should typically be defined in a separate file such as `store.js`.
Ideally, no app logic will import the store directly. It should be passed to a React component tree via `<Provider>`, or referenced indirectly via middleware such as thunks. In rare cases, you may need to import it into other logic files, but this should be a last resort.
