##  1.2. Changelog
This is version 6.1.1 of the Linux From Scratch book, dated November 30, 2005. If this book is more than six months old, a newer and better version is probably already available. To find out, please check one of the mirrors via
Below is a list of changes made since the previous release of the book. First a summary, then a detailed log.
  * Upgraded to:
    * Perl 5.8.7
    * Zlib 1.2.3
  * Added:
    * binutils-2.15.94.0.2.2-gcc4-1.patch
    * bzip2-1.0.3-install_docs-1.patch
    * bzip2-1.0.3-bzgrep_security-1.patch
    * glibc-2.3.4-rtld_search_dirs-1.patch
    * glibc-2.3.4-tls_assert-1.patch
    * texinfo-4.8-tempfile_fix-1.patch
    * util-linux-2.12q-umount_fix-1.patch
    * vim-6.3-security_fix-2.patch
  * Removed:
    * zlib-1.2.2-security_fix-1.patch;
  * November 30, 2005 [matt]: LFS-6.1.1 release.
  * November 24, 2005 [matt]: LFS-6.1.1-pre2 release.
  * November 24, 2005 [matt]: Fix an issue with Glibc that prevents some programs (including OpenOffice.org) from running.
  * November 23, 2005 [gerard]: Corrected reference to 'man page' to 'HTML documentation' in chapter 6/sec
  * November 18, 2005 [manuel]: Fixed the unpack of the module-init-tools-testsuite package.
  * November 18, 2005 [manuel]: PDF fixes.
  * November 17, 2005 [matt]: LFS-6.1.1-pre1 release.
  * November 12, 2005 [matt]: Improve the heuristic for determining a locale that is supported by both Glibc and packages outside LFS (bug 1642). Many thanks to Alexander Patrakov for highlighting the numerous issues and for reviewing the various suggested fixes.
  * November 12, 2005 [matt]: Omit running Bzip2's testsuite as a separate step, as **make** runs it automatically (bug 1652).
  * November 7, 2005 [matt]: Stop Udev from killing udevd processes on the host system (fixes bug 1651). Thanks to Alexander Patrakov for the report and the fix.
  * November 5, 2005 [matt]: Add a note to the toolchain sanity check in chapter 5 to explain that if TCL fails to build, it's an indication of a broken toolchain (bug 1581).
  * November 4, 2005 [matt]: Correct the instructions for running Module-Init-Tools' testsuite (fixes bug 1597). Thanks to Greg Schafer, Tushar Teredesai and to Randy McMurchy for providing the patch.
  * October 29, 2005 [manuel]: PDF fixes.
  * October 23, 2005 [manuel]: Added Bash documentation installation. Added notes about libiconv and Cracklib. Fixed the installation of Sed documentation. Replaced a patch for IPRoute2 by a sed command.
  * October 19, 2005 [manuel]: Updated the acknowledgements to current trunk version. Ported some redaction changes in preface and chapter01 pages. Moved chapter02 to part II. Added -v switches. Ported several typos and redaction fixes from trunk.
  * October 19, 2005 [manuel]: Updated the stylesheets, Makefile and related files to current trunk versions.
  * October 15, 2005 [matt]: Use an updated version of the Udev rules file (fixes bug 1639).
  * October 15, 2005 [matt]: Add a cdrom group as required by the Udev rules file
  * October 14th, 2005 [ken]: Added a patch to allow binutils to be built from a host running gcc-4, updated glibc instructions for the rtld patch, updated space/time for perl and zlib.
  * October 14th, 2005 [matt]: Added a patch to fix a security vulnerability in util-linux.
  * October 14th, 2005 [matt]: Added the updated vim security patch.
  * October 14th, 2005 [jhuntwork]: Added the bzip2 security and install docs patches.
  * October 14th, 2005 [jhuntwork]: Added the tempfile patch for texinfo.
  * October 14th, 2005 [ken]: Update packages and patches in the changelog to only reflect changes since 6.1. Update zlib.
  * October 13th, 2005 [ken]: Fix known errors in lists of installed files and bump the perl version.
