##  1.3. Resources
###  1.3.1. FAQ
If during the building of the LFS system you encounter any errors, have any questions, or think there is a typo in the book, please start by consulting the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) that is located at
###  1.3.2. Mailing Lists
The `linuxfromscratch.org` server hosts a number of mailing lists used for the development of the LFS project. These lists include the main development and support lists, among others. If the FAQ does not solve the problem you are having, the next step would be to search the mailing lists at
For information on the different lists, how to subscribe, archive locations, and additional information, visit
###  1.3.3. News Server
The mailing lists hosted at `linuxfromscratch.org` are also accessible via the Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP) server. All messages posted to a mailing list are copied to the corresponding newsgroup, and vice versa.
The news server is located at `news.linuxfromscratch.org`.
###  1.3.4. IRC
Several members of the LFS community offer assistance on our community Internet Relay Chat (IRC) network. Before using this support, please make sure that your question is not already answered in the LFS FAQ or the mailing list archives. You can find the IRC network at `irc.linuxfromscratch.org`. The support channel is named #LFS-support.
###  1.3.5. References
For additional information on the packages, useful tips are available in the LFS Package Reference page located at
###  1.3.6. Mirror Sites
The LFS project has a number of world-wide mirrors to make accessing the website and downloading the required packages more convenient. Please visit the LFS website at
###  1.3.7. Contact Information
Please direct all your questions and comments to one of the LFS mailing lists (see above).
