## Command-line Usage[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#command-line-usage "Link to this heading")
The `doctest` module can be invoked as a script from the command line:
Copy```
python -m doctest [-v] [-o OPTION] [-f] file [file ...]

```


-v, --verbose[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#cmdoption-doctest-v "Link to this definition")

Detailed report of all examples tried is printed to standard output, along with assorted summaries at the end:
Copy```
python -m doctest -v example.py

```

This will import `example.py` as a standalone module and run [`testmod()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.testmod "doctest.testmod") on it. Note that this may not work correctly if the file is part of a package and imports other submodules from that package.
If the file name does not end with `.py`, `doctest` infers that it must be run with [`testfile()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.testfile "doctest.testfile") instead:
Copy```
python -m doctest -v example.txt

```


-o, --option <option>[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#cmdoption-doctest-o "Link to this definition")

Option flags control various aspects of doctest’s behavior, see section [Option Flags](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest-options).
Added in version 3.4.

-f, --fail-fast[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#cmdoption-doctest-f "Link to this definition")

This is shorthand for `-o FAIL_FAST`.
Added in version 3.4.
## How It Works[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#how-it-works "Link to this heading")
This section examines in detail how doctest works: which docstrings it looks at, how it finds interactive examples, what execution context it uses, how it handles exceptions, and how option flags can be used to control its behavior. This is the information that you need to know to write doctest examples; for information about actually running doctest on these examples, see the following sections.
### Which Docstrings Are Examined?[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#which-docstrings-are-examined "Link to this heading")
The module docstring, and all function, class and method docstrings are searched. Objects imported into the module are not searched.
In addition, there are cases when you want tests to be part of a module but not part of the help text, which requires that the tests not be included in the docstring. Doctest looks for a module-level variable called `__test__` and uses it to locate other tests. If `M.__test__` exists, it must be a dict, and each entry maps a (string) name to a function object, class object, or string. Function and class object docstrings found from `M.__test__` are searched, and strings are treated as if they were docstrings. In output, a key `K` in `M.__test__` appears with name `M.__test__.K`.
For example, place this block of code at the top of `example.py`:
Copy```
__test__ = {
    'numbers': """
>>> factorial(6)
720

>>> [factorial(n) for n in range(6)]
[1, 1, 2, 6, 24, 120]
"""
}

```

The value of `example.__test__["numbers"]` will be treated as a docstring and all the tests inside it will be run. It is important to note that the value can be mapped to a function, class object, or module; if so, `doctest` searches them recursively for docstrings, which are then scanned for tests.
Any classes found are recursively searched similarly, to test docstrings in their contained methods and nested classes.
Note
`doctest` can only automatically discover classes and functions that are defined at the module level or inside other classes.
Since nested classes and functions only exist when an outer function is called, they cannot be discovered. Define them outside to make them visible.
### How are Docstring Examples Recognized?[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#how-are-docstring-examples-recognized "Link to this heading")
In most cases a copy-and-paste of an interactive console session works fine, but doctest isn’t trying to do an exact emulation of any specific Python shell.
Copy```
>>> # comments are ignored
>>> x = 12
>>> x
12
>>> if x == 13:
...     print("yes")
... else:
...     print("no")
...     print("NO")
...     print("NO!!!")
...
no
NO
NO!!!
>>>

```

Any expected output must immediately follow the final `'>>> '` or `'... '` line containing the code, and the expected output (if any) extends to the next `'>>> '` or all-whitespace line.
The fine print:
  * Expected output cannot contain an all-whitespace line, since such a line is taken to signal the end of expected output. If expected output does contain a blank line, put `<BLANKLINE>` in your doctest example each place a blank line is expected.
  * All hard tab characters are expanded to spaces, using 8-column tab stops. Tabs in output generated by the tested code are not modified. Because any hard tabs in the sample output _are_ expanded, this means that if the code output includes hard tabs, the only way the doctest can pass is if the [`NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE "doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE") option or [directive](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest-directives) is in effect. Alternatively, the test can be rewritten to capture the output and compare it to an expected value as part of the test. This handling of tabs in the source was arrived at through trial and error, and has proven to be the least error prone way of handling them. It is possible to use a different algorithm for handling tabs by writing a custom [`DocTestParser`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DocTestParser "doctest.DocTestParser") class.
  * Output to stdout is captured, but not output to stderr (exception tracebacks are captured via a different means).
  * If you continue a line via backslashing in an interactive session, or for any other reason use a backslash, you should use a raw docstring, which will preserve your backslashes exactly as you type them:
Copy```
>>> def f(x):
...     r'''Backslashes in a raw docstring: m\n'''
...
>>> print(f.__doc__)
Backslashes in a raw docstring: m\n

```

Otherwise, the backslash will be interpreted as part of the string. For example, the `\n` above would be interpreted as a newline character. Alternatively, you can double each backslash in the doctest version (and not use a raw string):
Copy```
>>> def f(x):
...     '''Backslashes in a raw docstring: m\\n'''
...
>>> print(f.__doc__)
Backslashes in a raw docstring: m\n

```

  * The starting column doesn’t matter:
Copy```
>>> assert "Easy!"
      >>> import math
          >>> math.floor(1.9)
          1

```

and as many leading whitespace characters are stripped from the expected output as appeared in the initial `'>>> '` line that started the example.


### What’s the Execution Context?[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#what-s-the-execution-context "Link to this heading")
By default, each time `doctest` finds a docstring to test, it uses a _shallow copy_ of `M`’s globals, so that running tests doesn’t change the module’s real globals, and so that one test in `M` can’t leave behind crumbs that accidentally allow another test to work. This means examples can freely use any names defined at top-level in `M`, and names defined earlier in the docstring being run. Examples cannot see names defined in other docstrings.
You can force use of your own dict as the execution context by passing `globs=your_dict` to [`testmod()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.testmod "doctest.testmod") or [`testfile()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.testfile "doctest.testfile") instead.
### What About Exceptions?[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#what-about-exceptions "Link to this heading")
No problem, provided that the traceback is the only output produced by the example: just paste in the traceback. [[1]](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#id2) Since tracebacks contain details that are likely to change rapidly (for example, exact file paths and line numbers), this is one case where doctest works hard to be flexible in what it accepts.
Simple example:
Copy```
>>> [1, 2, 3].remove(42)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ValueError: list.remove(x): x not in list

```

That doctest succeeds if [`ValueError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#ValueError "ValueError") is raised, with the `list.remove(x): x not in list` detail as shown.
The expected output for an exception must start with a traceback header, which may be either of the following two lines, indented the same as the first line of the example:
Copy```
Traceback (most recent call last):
Traceback (innermost last):

```

The traceback header is followed by an optional traceback stack, whose contents are ignored by doctest. The traceback stack is typically omitted, or copied verbatim from an interactive session.
The traceback stack is followed by the most interesting part: the line(s) containing the exception type and detail. This is usually the last line of a traceback, but can extend across multiple lines if the exception has a multi-line detail:
Copy```
>>> raise ValueError('multi\n    line\ndetail')
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ValueError: multi
    line
detail

```

The last three lines (starting with [`ValueError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#ValueError "ValueError")) are compared against the exception’s type and detail, and the rest are ignored.
Best practice is to omit the traceback stack, unless it adds significant documentation value to the example. So the last example is probably better as:
Copy```
>>> raise ValueError('multi\n    line\ndetail')
Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
ValueError: multi
    line
detail

```

Note that tracebacks are treated very specially. In particular, in the rewritten example, the use of `...` is independent of doctest’s [`ELLIPSIS`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.ELLIPSIS "doctest.ELLIPSIS") option. The ellipsis in that example could be left out, or could just as well be three (or three hundred) commas or digits, or an indented transcript of a Monty Python skit.
Some details you should read once, but won’t need to remember:
  * Doctest can’t guess whether your expected output came from an exception traceback or from ordinary printing. So, e.g., an example that expects `ValueError: 42 is prime` will pass whether [`ValueError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#ValueError "ValueError") is actually raised or if the example merely prints that traceback text. In practice, ordinary output rarely begins with a traceback header line, so this doesn’t create real problems.
  * Each line of the traceback stack (if present) must be indented further than the first line of the example, _or_ start with a non-alphanumeric character. The first line following the traceback header indented the same and starting with an alphanumeric is taken to be the start of the exception detail. Of course this does the right thing for genuine tracebacks.
  * When the [`IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL "doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL") doctest option is specified, everything following the leftmost colon and any module information in the exception name is ignored.
  * The interactive shell omits the traceback header line for some [`SyntaxError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#SyntaxError "SyntaxError")s. But doctest uses the traceback header line to distinguish exceptions from non-exceptions. So in the rare case where you need to test a `SyntaxError` that omits the traceback header, you will need to manually add the traceback header line to your test example.


  * For some exceptions, Python displays the position of the error using `^` markers and tildes:
Copy```
>>> 1 + None
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    1 + None
    ~~^~~~~~
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'int' and 'NoneType'

```

Since the lines showing the position of the error come before the exception type and detail, they are not checked by doctest. For example, the following test would pass, even though it puts the `^` marker in the wrong location:
Copy```
>>> 1 + None
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    1 + None
    ^~~~~~~~
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'int' and 'NoneType'

```



### Option Flags[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#option-flags "Link to this heading")
A number of option flags control various aspects of doctest’s behavior. Symbolic names for the flags are supplied as module constants, which can be [bitwise ORed](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#bitwise) together and passed to various functions. The names can also be used in [doctest directives](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest-directives), and may be passed to the doctest command line interface via the `-o` option.
The first group of options define test semantics, controlling aspects of how doctest decides whether actual output matches an example’s expected output:

doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_TRUE_FOR_1[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_TRUE_FOR_1 "Link to this definition")

By default, if an expected output block contains just `1`, an actual output block containing just `1` or just `True` is considered to be a match, and similarly for `0` versus `False`. When [`DONT_ACCEPT_TRUE_FOR_1`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_TRUE_FOR_1 "doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_TRUE_FOR_1") is specified, neither substitution is allowed. The default behavior caters to that Python changed the return type of many functions from integer to boolean; doctests expecting “little integer” output still work in these cases. This option will probably go away, but not for several years.

doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE "Link to this definition")

By default, if an expected output block contains a line containing only the string `<BLANKLINE>`, then that line will match a blank line in the actual output. Because a genuinely blank line delimits the expected output, this is the only way to communicate that a blank line is expected. When [`DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE "doctest.DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE") is specified, this substitution is not allowed.

doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE "Link to this definition")

When specified, all sequences of whitespace (blanks and newlines) are treated as equal. Any sequence of whitespace within the expected output will match any sequence of whitespace within the actual output. By default, whitespace must match exactly. [`NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE "doctest.NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE") is especially useful when a line of expected output is very long, and you want to wrap it across multiple lines in your source.

doctest.ELLIPSIS[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.ELLIPSIS "Link to this definition")

When specified, an ellipsis marker (`...`) in the expected output can match any substring in the actual output. This includes substrings that span line boundaries, and empty substrings, so it’s best to keep usage of this simple. Complicated uses can lead to the same kinds of “oops, it matched too much!” surprises that `.*` is prone to in regular expressions.

doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL "Link to this definition")

When specified, doctests expecting exceptions pass so long as an exception of the expected type is raised, even if the details (message and fully qualified exception name) don’t match.
For example, an example expecting `ValueError: 42` will pass if the actual exception raised is `ValueError: 3*14`, but will fail if, say, a [`TypeError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#TypeError "TypeError") is raised instead. It will also ignore any fully qualified name included before the exception class, which can vary between implementations and versions of Python and the code/libraries in use. Hence, all three of these variations will work with the flag specified:
Copy```
>>> raise Exception('message')
Traceback (most recent call last):
Exception: message

>>> raise Exception('message')
Traceback (most recent call last):
builtins.Exception: message

>>> raise Exception('message')
Traceback (most recent call last):
__main__.Exception: message

```

Note that [`ELLIPSIS`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.ELLIPSIS "doctest.ELLIPSIS") can also be used to ignore the details of the exception message, but such a test may still fail based on whether the module name is present or matches exactly.
Changed in version 3.2: [`IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL "doctest.IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL") now also ignores any information relating to the module containing the exception under test.

doctest.SKIP[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.SKIP "Link to this definition")

When specified, do not run the example at all. This can be useful in contexts where doctest examples serve as both documentation and test cases, and an example should be included for documentation purposes, but should not be checked. E.g., the example’s output might be random; or the example might depend on resources which would be unavailable to the test driver.
The SKIP flag can also be used for temporarily “commenting out” examples.

doctest.COMPARISON_FLAGS[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.COMPARISON_FLAGS "Link to this definition")

A bitmask or’ing together all the comparison flags above.
The second group of options controls how test failures are reported:

doctest.REPORT_UDIFF[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORT_UDIFF "Link to this definition")

When specified, failures that involve multi-line expected and actual outputs are displayed using a unified diff.

doctest.REPORT_CDIFF[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORT_CDIFF "Link to this definition")

When specified, failures that involve multi-line expected and actual outputs will be displayed using a context diff.

doctest.REPORT_NDIFF[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORT_NDIFF "Link to this definition")

When specified, differences are computed by `difflib.Differ`, using the same algorithm as the popular `ndiff.py` utility. This is the only method that marks differences within lines as well as across lines. For example, if a line of expected output contains digit `1` where actual output contains letter `l`, a line is inserted with a caret marking the mismatching column positions.

doctest.REPORT_ONLY_FIRST_FAILURE[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORT_ONLY_FIRST_FAILURE "Link to this definition")

When specified, display the first failing example in each doctest, but suppress output for all remaining examples. This will prevent doctest from reporting correct examples that break because of earlier failures; but it might also hide incorrect examples that fail independently of the first failure. When [`REPORT_ONLY_FIRST_FAILURE`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORT_ONLY_FIRST_FAILURE "doctest.REPORT_ONLY_FIRST_FAILURE") is specified, the remaining examples are still run, and still count towards the total number of failures reported; only the output is suppressed.

doctest.FAIL_FAST[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.FAIL_FAST "Link to this definition")

When specified, exit after the first failing example and don’t attempt to run the remaining examples. Thus, the number of failures reported will be at most 1. This flag may be useful during debugging, since examples after the first failure won’t even produce debugging output.

doctest.REPORTING_FLAGS[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.REPORTING_FLAGS "Link to this definition")

A bitmask or’ing together all the reporting flags above.
There is also a way to register new option flag names, though this isn’t useful unless you intend to extend `doctest` internals via subclassing:

doctest.register_optionflag(_name_)[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.register_optionflag "Link to this definition")

Create a new option flag with a given name, and return the new flag’s integer value. `register_optionflag()` can be used when subclassing [`OutputChecker`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.OutputChecker "doctest.OutputChecker") or [`DocTestRunner`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.DocTestRunner "doctest.DocTestRunner") to create new options that are supported by your subclasses. `register_optionflag()` should always be called using the following idiom:
Copy```
MY_FLAG = register_optionflag('MY_FLAG')

```

### Directives[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#directives "Link to this heading")
Doctest directives may be used to modify the [option flags](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest-options) for an individual example. Doctest directives are special Python comments following an example’s source code:
```
**directive**:             "#" "doctest:" [directive_options](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#grammar-token-doctest-directive_options)
**directive_options**:     [directive_option](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#grammar-token-doctest-directive_option) ("," [directive_option](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#grammar-token-doctest-directive_option))*
**directive_option**:      [on_or_off](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#grammar-token-doctest-on_or_off) [directive_option_name](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#grammar-token-doctest-directive_option_name)
**on_or_off**:             "+" | "-"
**directive_option_name**: "DONT_ACCEPT_BLANKLINE" | "NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE" | ...

```

Whitespace is not allowed between the `+` or `-` and the directive option name. The directive option name can be any of the option flag names explained above.
An example’s doctest directives modify doctest’s behavior for that single example. Use `+` to enable the named behavior, or `-` to disable it.
For example, this test passes:
Copy```
>>> print(list(range(20)))  # doctest: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
[0,   1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,
10,  11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19]

```

Without the directive it would fail, both because the actual output doesn’t have two blanks before the single-digit list elements, and because the actual output is on a single line. This test also passes, and also requires a directive to do so:
Copy```
>>> print(list(range(20)))  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
[0, 1, ..., 18, 19]

```

Multiple directives can be used on a single physical line, separated by commas:
Copy```
>>> print(list(range(20)))  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS, +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
[0,    1, ...,   18,    19]

```

If multiple directive comments are used for a single example, then they are combined:
Copy```
>>> print(list(range(20)))  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
...                         # doctest: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
[0,    1, ...,   18,    19]

```

As the previous example shows, you can add `...` lines to your example containing only directives. This can be useful when an example is too long for a directive to comfortably fit on the same line:
Copy```
>>> print(list(range(5)) + list(range(10, 20)) + list(range(30, 40)))
... # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
[0, ..., 4, 10, ..., 19, 30, ..., 39]

```

Note that since all options are disabled by default, and directives apply only to the example they appear in, enabling options (via `+` in a directive) is usually the only meaningful choice. However, option flags can also be passed to functions that run doctests, establishing different defaults. In such cases, disabling an option via `-` in a directive can be useful.
### Warnings[¶](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#warnings "Link to this heading")
`doctest` is serious about requiring exact matches in expected output. If even a single character doesn’t match, the test fails. This will probably surprise you a few times, as you learn exactly what Python does and doesn’t guarantee about output. For example, when printing a set, Python doesn’t guarantee that the element is printed in any particular order, so a test like
Copy```
>>> foo()
{"spam", "eggs"}

```

is vulnerable! One workaround is to do
Copy```
>>> foo() == {"spam", "eggs"}
True

```

instead. Another is to do
Copy```
>>> d = sorted(foo())
>>> d
['eggs', 'spam']

```

There are others, but you get the idea.
Another bad idea is to print things that embed an object address, like
Copy```
>>> id(1.0)  # certain to fail some of the time
7948648
>>> class C: pass
>>> C()  # the default repr() for instances embeds an address
<C object at 0x00AC18F0>

```

The [`ELLIPSIS`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html#doctest.ELLIPSIS "doctest.ELLIPSIS") directive gives a nice approach for the last example:
Copy```
>>> C()  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
<C object at 0x...>

```

Floating-point numbers are also subject to small output variations across platforms, because Python defers to the platform C library for some floating-point calculations, and C libraries vary widely in quality here.
Copy```
>>> 1000**0.1  # risky
1.9952623149688797
>>> round(1000**0.1, 9) # safer
1.995262315
>>> print(f'{1000**0.1:.4f}') # much safer
1.9953

```

Numbers of the form `I/2.**J` are safe across all platforms, and I often contrive doctest examples to produce numbers of that form:
Copy```
>>> 3./4  # utterly safe
0.75

```

Simple fractions are also easier for people to understand, and that makes for better documentation.
