#  1.6. Linux Compatibility Check
##  1.6.1. Related Documentation
  1. [Hardware-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Hardware-HOWTO/)
  2. [Kernel-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Kernel-HOWTO/)
  3. [PCI-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/PCI-HOWTO.html)
  4. [Plug-and-Play-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Plug-and-Play-HOWTO.html)


* * *
##  1.6.2. Check Methods in General
If you can't find the necessary information through the above mentioned sources, you are on your own. Luckily, Linux provides many means to help. For details see the section [Part V in _Linux on the Road_](https://tldp.org/LDP/Mobile-Guide/html/Mobile-Guide.html#mobile-guide-p2-mobile-hardware) Hardware In Detail below. In general you may use:
  1. First of all the kernel itself. Look up what kind of hardware is detected by the kernel. You get this information during boot time or by **dmesg** or by looking into `/var/log/messages`. For the very first boot messages check `/var/log/boot`.
  2. If your kernel supports the `/proc` file system you may get detailed information about PCI devices by **cat /proc/pci** Please read the kernel documentation `pci.txt`. You may get further information about unknown PCI devices at the **lspci** command from the **pci-utils** package.
  3. To retrieve information about Plug-and-Play (PNP) devices use **isapnp-tools** .
  4. Use **scsi_info** by David Hinds for SCSI devices or **scsiinfo**.


If you don't want to install a complete Linux you may retrieve this information by using a micro Linux ( see [Appendix A](https://tldp.org/LDP/Mobile-Guide/html/Mobile-Guide.html#mobile-guide-a1-other-operating-systems) Appendix A). The package **muLinux** provides even a small **systest** program and **TomsRtBt** comes with **memtest**. To use **memtest** you have to copy it on a floppy **dd if=/usr/lib/memtest of=/dev/fd0** and to reboot from this floppy.
If your laptop came with Windows, you may determine a lot of hardware settings from the installation. Boot into DOS or Windows to get the information you need.
Using Windows9x/NT to get hardware settings, basically boot Windows, then **Start - > Settings -> Control Panel -> System -> Device Manager** and write down everything, or make a hardcopy from the display using the **< PRINT>** key, plus keep a log of settings, hardware, memory, etc.
Using MS-DOS and Windows3.1x you can use the command **msd** , which is an akronym for MicroSoft Diagnostics. Or you might try one of the numerous DOS shareware utilities: **CHECK-IT** , **DR.HARD** and others.
Sometimes it's difficult to know what manufacturer has built the machine or parts of it actually. The
Many laptops are no more compatible with Windows than Linux. David Hinds, author of the PCMCIA drivers, points out that Toshiba notebooks use a proprietary Toshiba PCMCIA bridge chip that exhibits the same bugs under Windows as under Linux. IBM™ Thinkpads have serious BIOS problems that affect delivery of events to the power management daemon **apmd**. These bugs also affect MS-Windows, and are listed in IBM™'s documentation as _considerations_.
Some incompatibilities are temporary, for instance laptops that have Intel's USB chip will probably get full USB support, eventually.
* * *
