#  13.9. Printers and Scanners
##  13.9.1. Survey of Mobile Printers and Scanners
For a survey of ports and protocol to print via a mobile or stationary printer see the Different Environments chapter below.
  1. IrDA®. By properly I mean as a pseudo-PostScript device by way of **ghostscript** and a modified **lpd**.
How:
     * linux-2.2.7-ac2-irda6
     * **/proc/sys/net/irda/slot_timeout** increased to 10 (essential or discovery fails)
     * **ghostscript** DEVICE set to bjc600
     * `printcap` includes:
```

:xc#01777777:\
:fc#017:\
:fs#020000010002:

```

---
     * and **lpd** had to be modified to accept the ulong _fs_ and to handle _xc_ (which is documented but not coded in the lpd's I have looked at). "
For further information look at his page
Tim Auckland wrote: Would my version of **lpd** help? **unixlpr** is a portable version of the lpr/lpd suite, compatible with traditional versions and **:ms=** field (also seen in SunOS 4) and the ability to print directly to TCP connected printers without needing special filters. **ms** allows you to configure the tty using stty arguments directly, so if stty can handle the extended flags, my **lpd** should handle IrDA® _out of the box_. You can find the latest **unixlpr**
  2. HP: DeskJet 340Cbi. This is a small, portable, low-duty-cycle printer. It prints either black, or color (3 color). I have had some problems with it loading paper. Overall, the small size and portability make it a nice unit for use with laptops. I use the HP 500/500C driver with Linux.
  3. Olivetti: JP-90
  4. PCMCIA port.


AFAIK only the HP DeskJet 340Cbi and the BJC-80 machine have an infrared port. Pay attention to the supplied voltage of the power supply if you plan to travel abroad. I couldn't check the scan functionalities with Linux yet.
* * *
##  13.9.2. Scanner and OCR Software
_Scanner Access Now Easy_ and is an application programming interface (API) that provides standardized access to any raster image scanner hardware (flatbed scanner, hand-held scanner, video- and still-cameras, frame-grabbers, etc.). The SANE standard is free and its discussion and development is open to everybody. The current source code is written for UNIX (including Linux) and is available under the GNU public license (commercial application and backends are welcome, too, however).
For scanner drivers see
* * *
##  13.9.3. Connectivity
There are different ways to connect a printer or scanner to a laptop. For printers usually: parallel port, serial port, USB and IrDA® port. For scanners usually: parallel port, SCSI (via PCMCIA or generic SCSI port), USB and PCMCIA port. All of them need the appropriate kernel drivers.
* * *
