#  14.1. Kernel 2.4
##  14.1.1. PCMCIA
From " PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) is an international standards body and trade association with over 200 member companies that was founded in 1989 to establish standards for Integrated Circuit cards and to promote interchangeability among mobile computers where ruggedness, low power, and small size were critical. As the needs of mobile computer users have changed, so has the PC Card Standard. By 1991, PCMCIA had defined an I/O interface for the same 68 pin connector initially used for memory cards. At the same time, the Socket Services Specification was added and was soon followed by the Card Services Specification as developers realized that common software would be needed to enhance compatibility. " The cards are available in different formats: Type I, II, III.
A quotation from the `../Documentation/Changes` file: "PCMCIA (PC Card) support is now partially implemented in the main kernel source. Pay attention when you recompile your kernel. If you need to use the **PCMCIA-CS** modules, then don't compile the kernel's PCMCIA support. If you don't need to use the PCMCIA-CS modules (i.e. all the drivers you need are in the kernel sources), then don't compile them; you won't need anything in there. Also, be sure to upgrade to the latest **PCMCIA-CS** release." Further information you may get from the README-2.4 included with this package.
You may find an example kernel configuration for laptops in the [Section 14.3](https://tldp.org/LDP/Mobile-Guide/html/Mobile-Guide.html#mobile-guide-a12-kernel-configuration).
* * *
##  14.1.2. Powermanagement
At the moment there are two power management drivers in the linux kernel (AFAIK). They each have different userspace interfaces `/proc/apm/` and `/dev/apmctl/` and `/proc/acpi/` or something.
For further information see the page of **powermanager**.
With kernel 2.4 there is ACPI available, see ACPI chapter below.
The SuSE
* * *
##  14.1.3. Hotplug
There is a new
Kernel Support for Hot-Plugable Devices
```

CONFIG_HOTPLUG
  Say Y here if you want to plug devices into your computer while
  the system is running, and be able to use them quickly. In many
  cases, the devices can likewise be unplugged at any time too.

  One well known example of this is PCMCIA- or PC-cards, credit-card
  size devices such as network cards, modems or hard drives which are
  plugged into slots found on all modern laptop computers. Another
  example, used on modern desktops as well as laptops, is USB.

  Enable HOTPLUG and KMOD, and build a modular kernel. Get
  **/sbin/hotplug**) to
  load modules and set up software needed to use devices as
  you hotplug them.

```

---
* * *
