#  3.3. Linux Tools to Repartition a Hard Disk
##  3.3.1. GNU parted
* * *
##  3.3.2. ext2resize
**parted** project.
* * *
##  3.3.3. fixdisktable
Something was recently published on the <linux-kernel_at_vger.rutgers.edu> mailing list about a partition recovery program. I have neither used , nor examined, nor read much about it (except for the HTML page.) It may be useful to some of you if you have problems with
* * *
##  3.3.4. Caveats
Before repartitioning your hard disk take care about the disk layout. Especially look for hidden disk space or certain partitions used for _suspend to disk_ or _hibernation_ mode. Some laptops come with a partition which contains some BIOS programs (e.g. COMPAQ Armada 1592DT). Search the manual carefully for tools like **PHDISK.EXE** , Suspend to Disk, Diagnostic TOOLS.
APM "Suspend-To-Disk" feature ... if you already have a valid hibernation partition, you should be able to use it from any operating system that can handle APM suspends.
However, if one ever upgrades hard drive, memory, or repartitions their hard drive, they discover that they either have to do without the suspend-to-disk feature or boot to DOS and use the **PHDISK.EXE** program provided with their laptop or directly from Phoenix Technologies.
Now, Linux users are free from this restriction. **lphdisk** is a Linux utility that properly prepares these partitions for use. Not only does this eliminate having to boot to DOS, but my utility does not exhibit some of the nastier bugs that its DOS counterpart has."
Please see chapter DOS Tools to Repartition a Hard Disk, too.
* * *
##  3.3.5. Multi Boot
Please see the chapter chapter [Chapter 15](https://tldp.org/LDP/Mobile-Guide/html/Mobile-Guide.html#mobile-guide-p5c1-different-environments) Different Environments, for information about booting different operating systems from the same harddisk.
* * *
