    and also not have to worry about re-compiling everything from scratch if
    parts of it have already been done so and are up to date.

/usr/src/linux/README
     These are the release notes for Linux version 2.4. Read them carefully,
    as they tell you what this is all about, explain how to install the
    kernel, and what to do if something goes wrong.

/usr/src/linux/REPORTING-BUGS
     A suggested procedure for reporting Linux bugs. You aren't obliged to
    use the bug reporting format, it is provided as a guide to the kind of
    information that can be useful to developers - no more.

/usr/src/linux/Rules.make
     This file contains rules which are shared between multiple Makefiles.

/usr/src/linux/Documentation
    Contains documentation that may be necessary in order to re-compile a
    kernel. However, it also provides quite a lot of information about your
    Linux system in general as well. For those who wish to seek further
    information on the contents of this directory you may consult the /usr/
    src/linux/Documentation/00-INDEX file. Further, more detailed
    documentation may be found in /usr/src/linux/Documentation/Docbook. Of
    course, the contents of this directory is written in Docbook but may be
    converted to pdf, ps or html using the make targets of 'pdfdocs',
    'psdocs' and 'htmldocs' respectively.

/usr/tmp
     User space temporary files. This directory is not found on modern
    distributions at all and was most likely created as a consequence of
    Linux's UNIX heritage.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.18. /var

  Contains variable data like system logging files, mail and printer spool
directories, and transient and temporary files. Some portions of /var are not
shareable between different systems. For instance, /var/log, /var/lock, and /
var/run. Other portions may be shared, notably /var/mail, /var/cache/man, /
var/cache/fonts, and /var/spool/news. Why not put it into /usr? Because there
might be circumstances when you may want to mount /usr as read-only, e.g. if
it is on a CD or on another computer. '/var' contains variable data, i.e.
files and directories the system must be able to write to during operation,
whereas /usr should only contain static data. Some directories can be put
onto separate partitions or systems, e.g. for easier backups, due to network
topology or security concerns. Other directories have to be on the root
partition, because they are vital for the boot process. 'Mountable'
directories are: '/home', '/mnt', '/tmp', '/usr' and '/var'. Essential for
booting are: '/bin', '/boot', '/dev', '/etc', '/lib', '/proc' and '/sbin'.


If /var cannot be made a separate partition, it is often preferable to move /
var out of the root partition and into the /usr partition. (This is sometimes
done to reduce the size of the root partition or when space runs low in the
root partition.) However, /var must not be linked to /usr because this makes
separation of /usr and /var more difficult and is likely to create a naming
conflict. Instead, link /var to /usr/var.

Applications must generally not add directories to the top level of /var. Such
directories should only be added if they have some system-wide implication, and
in consultation with the FHS mailing list.


/var/backups
    Directory containing backups of various key system files such as /etc/
    shadow, /etc/group, /etc/inetd.conf and dpkg.status. They are normally
    renamed to something like dpkg.status.0, group.bak, gshadow.bak,
    inetd.conf.bak, passwd.bak, shadow.bak

/var/cache
    Is intended for cached data from applications. Such data is locally
    generated as a result of time-consuming I/O or calculation. This data can
    generally be regenerated or be restored. Unlike /var/spool, files here
    can be deleted without data loss. This data remains valid between
    invocations of the application and rebooting of the system. The existence
    of a separate directory for cached data allows system administrators to
    set different disk and backup policies from other directories in /var.

/var/cache/fonts
    Locally-generated fonts. In particular, all of the fonts which are
    automatically generated by mktexpk must be located in appropriately-named
    subdirectories of /var/cache/ fonts.

/var/cache/man
    A cache for man pages that are formatted on demand. The source for manual
    pages is usually stored in /usr/share/man/; some manual pages might come
    with a pre-formatted version, which is stored in /usr/share/man/cat*
    (this is fairly rare now). Other manual pages need to be formatted when
    they are first viewed; the formatted version is then stored in /var/man
    so that the next person to view the same page won't have to wait for it
    to be formatted (/var/catman is often cleaned in the same way temporary
    directories are cleaned).

/var/cache/'package-name'
    Package specific cache data.

/var/cache/www
    WWW proxy or cache data.

/var/crash
    This directory will eventually hold system crash dumps. Currently, system
    crash dumps are not supported under Linux. However, development is
    already complete and is awaiting unification into the Linux kernel.

/var/db
    Data bank store.

/var/games
    Any variable data relating to games in /usr is placed here. It holds
    variable data that was previously found in /usr. Static data, such as
    help text, level descriptions, and so on, remains elsewhere though, such
    as in /usr/share/games. The separation of /var/games and /var/lib as in
    release FSSTND 1.2 allows local control of backup strategies,
    permissions, and disk usage, as well as allowing inter-host sharing and
    reducing clutter in /var/lib. Additionally, /var/games is the path
    traditionally used by BSD.

/var/lib
    Holds dynamic data libraries/files like the rpm/dpkg database and game
    scores. Furthermore, this hierarchy holds state information pertaining to
    an application or the system. State information is data that programs
    modify while they run, and that pertains to one specific host. Users
    shouldn't ever need to modify files in /var/lib to configure a package's
    operation. State information is generally used to preserve the condition
    of an application (or a group of inter-related applications) between
    invocations and between different instances of the same application. An
    application (or a group of inter-related applications) use a subdirectory
    of /var/lib for their data. There is one subdirectory, /var/lib/misc,
    which is intended for state files that don't need a subdirectory; the
    other subdirectories should only be present if the application in
    question is included in the distribution. /var/lib/'name' is the location
    that must be used for all distribution packaging support. Different
    distributions may use different names, of course.

/var/local
    Variable data for local programs (i.e., programs that have been installed
    by the system administrator) that are installed in /usr/local (as opposed
    to a remotely mounted '/var' partition). Note that even locally installed
    programs should use the other /var directories if they are appropriate,
    e.g., /var/lock.

/var/lock
    Many programs follow a convention to create a lock file in /var/lock to
    indicate that they are using a particular device or file. This directory
    holds those lock files (for some devices) and hopefully other programs
    will notice the lock file and won't attempt to use the device or file.

    Lock files should be stored within the /var/lock directory structure.
    Lock files for devices and other resources shared by multiple
    applications, such as the serial device lock files that were originally
    found in either /usr/spool/locks or /usr/spool/uucp, must now be stored
    in /var/lock. The naming convention which must be used is LCK.. followed
    by the base name of the device file. For example, to lock /dev/ttyS0 the
    file LCK..ttyS0 would be created. The format used for the contents of
    such lock files must be the HDB UUCP lock file format. The HDB format is
    to store the process identifier (PID) as a ten byte ASCII decimal number,
    with a trailing newline. For example, if process 1230 holds a lock file,
    it would contain the eleven characters: space, space, space, space,
    space, space, one, two, three, zero, and newline.

/var/log
    Log files from the system and various programs/services, especially login
    (/var/log/wtmp, which logs all logins and logouts into the system) and
    syslog (/var/log/messages, where all kernel and system program message
    are usually stored). Files in /var/log can often grow indefinitely, and
    may require cleaning at regular intervals. Something that is now normally
    managed via log rotation utilities such as 'logrotate'. This utility also
    allows for the automatic rotation compression, removal and mailing of log
    files. Logrotate can be set to handle a log file daily, weekly, monthly
    or when the log file gets to a certain size. Normally, logrotate runs as
    a daily cron job. This is a good place to start troubleshooting general
    technical problems.

/var/log/auth.log
    Record of all logins and logouts by normal users and system processes.

/var/log/btmp
    Log of all attempted bad logins to the system. Accessed via the lastb
    command.

/var/log/debug
    Debugging output from various packages.

/var/log/dmesg
    Kernel ring buffer. The content of this file is referred to by the dmesg
    command.

/var/log/gdm/
    GDM log files. Normally a subset of the last X log file. See /var/log/
    xdm.log for mode details.

/var/log/kdm.log
    KDM log file. Normally a subset of the last X log file. See /var/log/
    xdm.log for more details.

/var/log/messages
    System logs.

/var/log/pacct
    Process accounting is the bookkeeping of process activity. The raw data
    of process activity is maintained here. Three commands can be used to
    access the contents of this file dump-acct, sa (summary of process
    accounting) and lastcomm (list the commands executed on the system).

/var/log/utmp
    Active user sessions. This is a data file and as such it can not be
    viewed normally. A human-readable form can be created via the dump-utmp
    command or through the w, who or users commands.

/var/log/wtmp
    Log of all users who have logged into and out of the system. The last
    command can be used to access a human readable form of this file. It also
    lists every connection and run-level change.

/var/log/xdm.log
    XDM log file. Normally subset of the last X startup log and pretty much
    useless in light of the details the X logs is able to provide us with.
    Only consult this file if you have XDM specific issues otherwise just use
    the X logfile.

/var/log/XFree86.0.log, /var/log/XFree86.?.log
    X startup logfile. An excellent resource for uncovering problems with X
    configuration. Log files are numbered according to when they were last
    used. For example, the last log file would be stored in /var/log/
    XFree86.0.log, the next /var/log/XFree86.9.log, so on and so forth.

/var/log/syslog
    The 'system' log file. The contents of this file is managed via the
    syslogd daemon which more often than not takes care of all log
    manipulation on most systems.

/var/mail
    Contains user mailbox files. The mail files take the form /var/mail/
    'username' (Note that /var/mail may be a symbolic link to another
    directory). User mailbox files in this location are stored in the
    standard UNIX mailbox format. The reason for the location of this
    directory was to bring the FHS inline with nearly every UNIX
    implementation (it was previously located in /var/spool/mail). This
    change is important for interoperability since a single /var/mail is
    often shared between multiple hosts and multiple UNIX implementations
    (despite NFS locking issues).

/var/opt
    Variable data of the program packages in /opt must be installed in /var/
    opt/'package-name', where 'package-name' is the name of the subtree in /
    opt where the static data from an add-on software package is stored,
    except where superseded by another file in /etc. No structure is imposed
    on the internal arrangement of /var/opt/'package-name'.

/var/run
    Contains the process identification files (PIDs) of system services and
    other information about the system that is valid until the system is next
    booted. For example, /var/run/utmp contains information about users
    currently logged in.

/var/spool
    Holds spool files, for instance for mail, news, and printing (lpd) and
    other queued work. Spool files store data to be processed after the job
    currently occupying a device is finished or the appropriate cron job is
    started. Each different spool has its own subdirectory below /var/spool,
    e.g., the cron tables are stored in /var/spool/cron/crontabs.

/var/tmp
    Temporary files that are large or that need to exist for a longer time
    than what is allowed for /tmp. (Although the system administrator might
    not allow very old files in /var/tmp either.)

/var/named
    Database for BIND. The Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND) implements an
    Internet domain name server. BIND is the most widely used name server
    software on the Internet, and is supported by the Internet Software
    Consortium, www.isc.org.

/var/yp
    Database for NIS (Network Information Services). NIS is mostly used to
    let several machines in a network share the same account information (eg.
    /etc/passwd). NIS was formerly called Yellow Pages (YP).


The following directories, or symbolic links to directories, are required in
/var for FSSTND compliance:

  /var/cache    Application cache data
  /var/lib      Variable state information
  /var/local    Variable data for /usr/local
  /var/lock     Lock files
  /var/log      Log files and directories
  /var/opt      Variable data for /opt
  /var/run      Data relevant to running processes
  /var/spool    Application spool data
  /var/tmp      Temporary files preserved between system reboots


Several directories are 'reserved' in the sense that they must not be used
arbitrarily by some new application, since they would conflict with
historical and/or local practice. They are:

  /var/backups
  /var/cron
  /var/msgs
  /var/preserve


The following directories, or symbolic links to directories, must be in /var,
if the corresponding subsystem is installed:

  account   Process accounting logs (optional)
  crash     System crash dumps (optional)
  games     Variable game data (optional)
  mail      User mailbox files (optional)
  yp        Network Information Service (NIS) database files (optional)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.19. /srv


  /srv contains site-specific data which is served by this system.

  This main purpose of specifying this is so that users may find
  the location of the data files for particular service, and so that
  services which require a single tree for readonly data, writable data
  and scripts (such as cgi scripts) can be reasonably placed. Data that
  is only of interest to a specific user should go in that users'
  home directory.

  The methodology used to name subdirectories of /srv is unspecified as there
  is currently no consensus on how this should be done. One method for
  structuring data under /srv is by protocol, eg. ftp, rsync, www, and cvs.
  On large systems it can be useful to structure /srv by administrative
  context, such as /srv/physics/www, /srv/compsci/cvs, etc. This setup will
  differ from host to host. Therefore, no program should rely on a specific
  subdirectory structure of /srv existing or data necessarily being stored in
  /srv. However /srv should always exist on FHS compliant systems and should
  be used as the default location for such data.

  Distributions must take care not to remove locally placed files in these
  directories without administrator permission.

  This is particularly important as these areas will often contain both
  files initially installed by the distributor, and those added by the
  administrator.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.20. /tmp

  This directory contains mostly files that are required temporarily. Many
programs use this to create lock files and for temporary storage of data. Do
not remove files from this directory unless you know exactly what you are
doing! Many of these files are important for currently running programs and
deleting them may result in a system crash. Usually it won't contain more
than a few KB anyway. On most systems, this directory is cleared out at boot
or at shutdown by the local system. The basis for this was historical
precedent and common practice. However, it was not made a requirement because
system administration is not within the scope of the FSSTND. For this reason
people and programs must not assume that any files or directories in /tmp are
preserved between invocations of the program. The reasoning behind this is
for compliance with IEEE standard P1003.2 (POSIX, part 2).

Glossary

 ARPA
     The Advanced Research and Projects Agency of the United States
    Department of Defense. Also known as DARPA (the "D" stands for
    "Defense"), it originated in the late 1960s and early 1970s the proposal
    and standards for the Internet. For this reason, the Internet was
    initially referred to as ARPANet, and connected the military with the
    various centers of research around the United States in a way that was
    intended to have a high degree of survivability against a nuclear attack.

 BASH
     The Bourne Again Shell and is based on the Bourne shell, sh, the
    original command interpreter.

 Bourne Shell
     The Bourne shell is the original Unix shell (command execution program,
    often called a command interpreter) that was developed at AT&T. Named for
    its developer, Stephen Bourne, the Bourne shell is also known by its
    program name, sh. The shell prompt (character displayed to indicate
    readiness for input) used is the $ symbol. The Bourne shell family
    includes the Bourne, Korn shell, bash, and zsh shells. Bourne Again Shell
    (bash) is the free version of the Bourne shell distributed with Linux
    systems. Bash is similar to the original, but has added features such as
    command line editing. Its name is sometimes spelled as Bourne Again
    SHell, the capitalized Hell referring to the difficulty some people have
    with it.

 CLI
     A CLI (command line interface) is a user interface to a computer's
    operating system or an application in which the user responds to a visual
    prompt by typing in a command on a specified line, receives a response
    back from the system, and then enters another command, and so forth. The
    MS-DOS Prompt application in a Windows operating system is an example of
    the provision of a command line interface. Today, most users prefer the
    graphical user interface (GUI) offered by Windows, Mac OS, BeOS, and
    others. Typically, most of today's Unix-based systems offer both a
    command line interface and a graphical user interface.

 core
     A core file is created when a program terminates unexpectedly, due to a
    bug, or a violation of the operating system's or hardware's protection
    mechanisms. The operating system kills the program and creates a core
    file that programmers can use to figure out what went wrong. It contains
    a detailed description of the state that the program was in when it died.
    If would like to determine what program a core file came from, use the
    file command, like this: $ file core That will tell you the name of the
    program that produced the core dump. You may want to write the maintainer
    (s) of the program, telling them that their program dumped core. To
    Enable or Disable Core Dumps you must use the ulimit command in bash, the
    limit command in tcsh, or the rlimit command in ksh. See the appropriate
    manual page for details. This setting affects all programs run from the
    shell (directly or indirectly), not the whole system. If you wish to
    enable or disable core dumping for all processes by default, you can
    change the default setting in /usr/include/linux/sched.h. Refer to
    definition of INIT_TASK, and look also in /usr/include/linux/resource.h.
    PAM support optimizes the system's environment, including the amount of
    memory a user is allowed. In some distributions this parameter is
    configurable in the /etc/security/limits.conf file. For more information,
    refer to the Linux Administrator's Security Guide.

 daemon
     A process lurking in the background, usually unnoticed, until something
    triggers it into action. For example, the \cmd{update} daemon wakes up
    every thirty seconds or so to flush the buffer cache, and the \cmd
    {sendmail} daemon awakes whenever someone sends mail.

 DARPA
     The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency is the central research
    and development organization for the Department of Defense (DoD). It
    manages and directs selected basic and applied research and development
    projects for DoD, and pursues research and technology where risk and
    payoff are both very high and where success may provide dramatic advances
    for traditional military roles and missions.

 DHCP
     Dynamic Host Control Protocol, is a protocol like BOOTP (actually dhcpd
    includes much of the functionality of BOOTPD). It assigns IP addresses to
    clients based on lease times. DHCP is used extensively by Microsoft and
    more recently also by Apple. It is probably essential in any
    multi-platform environment.

 DNS
     Domain Name System translates Internet domain and host names to IP
    addresses. DNS implements a distributed database to store name and
    address information for all public hosts on the Net. DNS assumes IP
    addresses do not change (i.e., are statically assigned rather than
    dynamically assigned). The DNS database resides on a hierarchy of
    special-purpose servers. When visiting a Web site or other device on the
    Net, a piece of software called the DNS resolver (usually built into the
    network operating system) first contacts a DNS server to determine the
    server's IP address. If the DNS server does not contain the needed
    mapping, it will in turn forward the request to a DNS server at the next
    higher level in the hierarchy. After potentially several forwarding and
    delegation messages are sent within the DNS hierarchy, the IP address for
    the given host eventually is delivered to the resolver. DNS also includes
    support for caching requests and for redundancy. Most network operating
    systems allow one to enter the IP addresses of primary, secondary, and
    tertiary DNS servers, each of which can service initial requests from
    clients. Many ISPs maintain their own DNS servers and use DHCP to
    automatically assign the addresses of these servers to dial-in clients,
    so most home users need not be aware of the details behind DNS
    configuration. Registered domain names and addresses must be renewed
    periodically, and should a dispute occur between two parties over
    ownership of a given name, such as in trademarking, ICANN's Uniform
