    for instance, make available X fonts in user accounts that are not
    available to the X server or to an already running system xfs.

/etc/X11/fs/config
    This is the 'xfs' initialisation file. It specifies the number of clients
    that are allowed to connect to the 'xfs' server at any one time, the
    location of log files, default resolution, the location of the fonts,
    etc.


    # font server configuration file
    # $Xorg: config.cpp,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:54:19 cpqbld Exp $

    # allow a maximum of 10 clients to connect to this font server
    client-limit = 10
    # when a font server reaches its limit, start up a new one
    clone-self = on
    # log messages to /var/log/xfs.log (if syslog is not used)
    error-file = /var/log/xfs.log
    # log errors using syslog
    use-syslog = on
    # turn off TCP port listening (Unix domain connections are still permitted)
    no-listen = tcp
    # paths to search for fonts
    catalogue = /usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic/,
    /usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled,
    /usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID,
    /usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/,
    /usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/
    # in decipoints
    default-point-size = 120
    # x1,y1,x2,y2,...
    default-resolutions = 100,100,75,75

    # font cache control, specified in kB
    cache-hi-mark = 2048
    cache-low-mark = 1433
    cache-balance = 70

/etc/X11/twm
    Home of configuration files for twm. The original Tabbed Window Manager.

/etc/X11/xinit/
    xinit configuration files. 'xinit' is a configuration method of starting
    up an X session that is designed to used as part of a script. Normally,
    this is used at larger sites as part of a tailored login process.

/etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
    Global xinitrc file, used by all X sessions started by xinit (startx).
    Its usage is of course overridden by a .xinitrc file located in the home
    directory of a user.

/etc/adduser.conf
    'adduser' configuration. The adduser command can create new users, groups
    and add existing users to existing groups. Adding users with adduser is
    much easier than adding them by hand. Adduser will choose appropriate UID
    and GID values, create a home directory, copy skeletal user configuration
    from /etc/skel, allow you to set an initial password and the GECOS field.
    Optionally a custom script can be executed after this commands. See
    adduser(8) and adduser.conf(5) for full documentation.

/etc/adjtime
    Has parameters to help adjust the software (kernel) time so that it
    matches the RTC.

/etc/aliases
    This is the aliases file - it says who gets mail for whom. It was
    originally generated by `eximconfig', part of the exim package
    distributed with Debian, but it may edited by the mail system
    administrator. See exim info section for details of the things that can
    be configured here. An aliases database file (aliases.db) is built from
    the entries in the aliases files by the newaliases utility.

/etc/alternatives
    It is possible for several programs fulfilling the same or similar
    functions to be installed on a single system at the same time. For
    example, many systems have several text editors installed at once. This
    gives choice to the users of a system, allowing each to use a different
    editor, if desired, but makes it difficult for a program to make a good
    choice of editor to invoke if the user has not specified a particular
    preference.

    The alternatives system aims to solve this problem. A generic name in the
    filesystem is shared by all files providing interchangeable
    functionality. The alternatives system and the system administrator
    together determine which actual file is referenced by this generic name.
    For example, if the text editors ed(1) and nvi(1) are both installed on
    the system, the alternatives system will cause the generic name /usr/bin/
    editor to refer to /usr/bin/nvi by default. The system administrator can
    override this and cause it to refer to /usr/bin/ed instead, and the
    alternatives system will not alter this setting until explicitly
    requested to do so.

    The generic name is not a direct symbolic link to the selected
    alternative. Instead, it is a symbolic link to a name in the alternatives
    directory, which in turn is a symbolic link to the actual file
    referenced. This is done so that the system administrator's changes can
    be confined within the /etc directory.

/etc/apt
     This is Debian's next generation front-end for the dpkg package manager.
    It provides the apt-get utility and APT dselect method that provides a
    simpler, safer way to install and upgrade packages. APT features complete
    installation ordering, multiple source capability and several other
    unique features, see the Users Guide in /usr/share/doc/apt/guide.text.gz

/etc/apt/sources.list
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-7 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-6 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-5 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-4 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-3 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-2 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main
    deb cdrom:[Debian GNU/Linux 3.0 r0 _Woody_ - Official i386 Binary-1 (20020718)]/
              unstable contrib main non-US/contrib non-US/main

    # deb http://security.debian.org/ stable/updates main

      Contains a list of apt-sources from which packages may be installed via
    APT.

/etc/asound.conf
    ALSA (Advanced Linux Sound Architecture) configuration file. It is
    normally created via alsactl or other third-party sound configuration
    utilities that may be specific to a distribution such as sndconfig from
    Redhat.

/etc/at.deny
    Users denied access to the at daemon. The 'at' command allows user to
    execute programs at an arbitrary time.

/etc/autoconf
    Configuration files for autoconf. 'autoconf' creates scripts to configure
    source code packages using templates. To create configure from
    configure.in, run the autoconf program with no arguments. autoconf
    processes configure.ac with the m4 macro processor, using the Autoconf
    macros. If you give autoconf an argument, it reads that file instead of
    configure.ac and writes the configuration script to the standard output
    instead of to configure. If you give autoconf the argument -, it reads
    the standard input instead of configure.ac and writes the configuration
    script on the standard output.

    The Autoconf macros are defined in several files. Some of the files are
    distributed with Autoconf; autoconf reads them first. Then it looks for
    the optional file acsite.m4 in the directory that contains the
    distributed Autoconf macro files, and for the optional file aclocal.m4 in
    the current directory. Those files can contain your site's or the
    package's own Autoconf macro definitions. If a macro is defined in more
    than one of the files that autoconf reads, the last definition it reads
    overrides the earlier ones.

/etc/bash.bashrc
    System wide functions and aliases' file for interactive bash shells.

/etc/bash_completion
    Programmable completion functions for bash 2.05a.

/etc/chatscripts/provider
    This is the chat script used to dial out to your default service
    provider.

/etc/cron.d, /etc/cron.daily, /etc/cron.weekly, /etc/cron.monthly
    These directories contain scripts to be executed on a regular basis by
    the cron daemon.

/etc/crontab
    'cron' configuration file. This file is for the cron table to setup the
    automatic running of system routines. A cron table can also be
    established for individual users. The location of these user cron table
    files will be explained later on.

    # /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
    # Unlike any other crontab you don't have to run the `crontab'
    # command to install the new version when you edit this file.
    # This file also has a username field, that none of the other crontabs do.

    SHELL=/bin/sh
    PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

    # m h dom mon dow user command
    25 6 * * * root test -e /usr/sbin/anacron || run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily
    47 6 * * 7 root test -e /usr/sbin/anacron || run-parts --report /etc/cron.weekly
    52 6 1 * * root test -e /usr/sbin/anacron || run-parts --report /etc/cron.monthly
    #

/etc/csh.login
    System-wide .login file for csh(1). This file is sourced on all
    invocations of the shell. It contains commands that are to be executed
    upon login and sometimes aliases also.

/etc/csh.logout
    System-wide .logout file for csh(1). This file is sourced on all
    invocations of the shell. It contains commands that are to be executed
    upon logout.

/etc/csh.cshrc
    System-wide .cshrc file for csh(1). This file is sourced on all
    invocations of the shell. This file should contain commands to set the
    command search path, plus other important environment variables. This
    file should not contain commands that produce output or assume the shell
    is attached to a tty.

/etc/cups
    Configuration files for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS). Files
    here are used to define client-specific parameters, such as the default
    server or default encryption settings.

/etc/deluser.conf
    'deluser' configuration files. The deluser command can remove users and
    groups and remove users from a given group. Deluser can optionally remove
    and backup the user's home directory and mail spool or all files on the
    system owned by him. Optionally a custom script can also be executed
    after each of the commands.

/etc/devfs
      This daemon sets up the /dev filesystem for use. It creates required
    symbolic links in /dev and also creates (if so configured, as is the
    default) symbolic links to the "old" names for devices.

/etc/devfs/conf.d/
    'devfsd' configuration files. This daemon sets up the /dev filesystem for
    use. It creates required symbolic links in /dev and also creates (if so
    configured, as is the default) symbolic links to the "old" names for
    devices.

/etc/dhclient.conf, /etc/dhclient-script
    'dhclient' configuration file and 'dhclient' script files respectively.
    It configures your system so that it may act as a client on a DHCP based
    network. It is essential to connect to the Internet nowadays.

/etc/dict.conf
    #  /etc/dict.conf Written by Bob Hilliard <hilliard@debian.org>
    #  1998/03/20.  Last revised Sun, 22 Nov 1998 18:10:04 -0500 This is
    #  the configuration file for /usr/bin/dict.  In most cases only the
    #  server keyword need be specified.

    #  This default configuration will try to access a dictd server on
    #  the local host, failing that, it will try the public server.  In
    #  many cases this will be slow, so you should comment out the line
    #  for the server that you don't want to use. To use any other
    #  server, enter its IP address in place of "dict.org".

    #  Refer to the dict manpage (man dict) for other options that could
    #  be inserted in here.

    server localhost
    server dict.org

     dict is a client for the Dictionary Server Protocol (DICT), a TCP
    transaction based query/response protocol that provides access to
    dictionary definitions from a set of natural language dictionary
    databases.

/etc/dosemu.conf
    Configuration file for the Linux DOS Emulator. DOSEMU is a PC Emulator
    application that allows Linux to run a DOS operating system in a virtual
    x86 machine. This allows you to run many DOS applications. It includes
    the FreeDOS kernel, color text and full keyboard emulation (via hotkeys)
    via terminal, built-in X support, IBM character set font, graphics
    capability at the console with most compatible video cards, DPMI support
    so you can run DOOM, CDROM support, builtin IPX and pktdrvr support. Note
    - 'dosemu' is simply a ported version of Corel's own PC-DOS.

/etc/email-addresses
    Part of the exim package. This file contains email addresses to use for
    outgoing mail. Any local part not in here will be qualified by the system
    domain as normal. It should contain lines of the form:


          user: someone@isp.com
          otheruser: someoneelse@anotherisp.com



    Exim is an MTA that is considered to be rather easier to configure than
    smail or sendmail. It is a drop-in replacement for sendmail, mailq and
    rsmtp. Advanced features include the ability to reject connections from
    known spam sites, and an extremely efficient queue processing algorithm.
/etc/esound.conf
    ESD configuration files. The Enlightened sound daemon is designed to mix
    together several digitized audio streams for playback by a single device.
    Like nasd, artsd and rplay it also has the capability to play sounds
    remotely.

/etc/exports
    The control list of systems who want to access the system via NFS, a the
    list of directories that you would like to share and the permissions
    allocated on each share.

      # /etc/exports: the access control list for filesystems which may be
      # exported to NFS clients.  See exports(5).
      ## LTS-begin ##

      #
      # The lines between the 'LTS-begin' and the 'LTS-end' were added
      # on: Sun Feb 23 05:54:17 EST 2003 by the ltsp installation script.
      # For more information, visit the ltsp homepage
      # at http://www.ltsp.org
      #

      /opt/ltsp/i386                  192.168.0.0/255.255.255.0(ro,no_root_squash)
      /var/opt/ltsp/swapfiles         192.168.0.0/255.255.255.0(rw,no_root_squash)

      #
      # The following entries need to be uncommented if you want
      # Local App support in ltsp
      #
      #/home                  192.168.0.0/255.255.255.0(rw,no_root_squash)

      ## LTS-end ##

/etc/fdprm
    Floppy disk parameter table. Describes what different floppy disk formats
    look like. Used by setfdprm.

/etc/fstab
    The configuration file for 'mount' and now 'supermount'. It lists the
    filesystems mounted automatically at startup by the mount -a command (in
    /etc/rc or equivalent startup file). Under Linux, also contains
    information about swap areas used automatically by swapon -a.



          # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
          #
          # The following is an example. Please see fstab(5) for further details.
          # Please refer to mount(1) for a complete description of mount options.
          #
          # Format:
          # <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
          #
          # dump(8) uses the <dump> field to determine which file systems need
          # to be dumped. fsck(8) uses the <pass> column to determine which file
          # systems need to be checked--the root file system should have a 1 in
          # this field, other file systems a 2, and any file systems that should
          # not be checked (such as MS-DOS or NFS file systems) a 0.
          #
          # The `sw' option indicates that the swap partition is to be activated
          # with `swapon -a'.
          /dev/hda2 none swap sw 0 0
          # The `bsdgroups' option indicates that the file system is to be mounted
          # with BSD semantics (files inherit the group ownership of the directory
          # in which they live). `ro' can be used to mount a file system read-only.
          /dev/hda3 / ext2 defaults 0 1
          /dev/hda5 /home ext2 defaults 0 2
          /dev/hda6 /var ext2 defaults 0 2
          /dev/hda7 /usr ext2 defaults,ro 0 2
          /dev/hda8 /usr/local ext2 defaults,bsdgroups 0 2
          # The `noauto' option indicates that the file system should not be mounted
          # with `mount -a'. `user' indicates that normal users are allowed to mount
          # the file system.
          /dev/cdrom /cdrom iso9660 defaults,noauto,ro,user 0 0
          /dev/fd0 /floppy minix defaults,noauto,user 0 0
          /dev/fd1 /floppy minix defaults,noauto,user 0 0
          # NFS file systems: server:
          /export/usr /usr nfs defaults 0 0
          # proc file system:
          proc /proc proc defaults 0 0




/etc/ftpaccess
    Determines who might get ftp-access to your machine.

/etc/ftpchroot
    List of ftp users that need to be chrooted.

/etc/ftpuser
    List of disallowed ftp users.

/etc/gateways
    Lists gateways for 'routed'.

/etc/gettydefs
    Configures console-logins.

/etc/gnome-vfs-mime-magic
    MIME magic patterns as used by the Gnome VFS library.

/etc/group
    Similar to /etc/passwd. It lists the configured user groups and who
    belongs to them.

/etc/group-
    Old /etc/group file.

/etc/gshadow
    Contains encrypted forms of group passwords.

/etc/gshadow-
    Old /etc/gshadow file.

/etc/hostname
    Contains the hostname of your machine (can be fully qualified or not).

/etc/host.conf
    Determines the search order for look-ups (usually hosts bind, i.e. "check
    /etc/hosts first and then look for a DNS").

/etc/hosts
    This file is used to define a system name and domain combination with a
    specific IP address. This file needs to always contain an entry for an IP
    address, if the machine is connected to the network.

      ### etherconf DEBCONF AREA. DO NOT EDIT THIS AREA OR INSERT TEXT BEFORE IT.
      127.0.0.1 localhost ::1 localhost
      ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
      fe00::0 ip6-localnet
      ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
      ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
      ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
      ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
      192.168.0.99 debian.localdomain.com debian
      ### END OF DEBCONF AREA. PLACE YOUR EDITS BELOW; THEY WILL BE PRESERVED.
      192.168.0.1 ws001


/etc/hosts.allow
    Part of the tcp-wrappers system to control access to your machine's
    services. It lists hosts that are allowed to access the system and
    specific daemons.

      # /etc/hosts.allow: list of hosts that are allowed to access the
      # system.
      # See the manual pages hosts_access(5), hosts_options(5)
      # and /usr/doc/netbase/portmapper.txt.gz
      #
      # Example: ALL: LOCAL @some_netgroup
      # ALL: .foobar.edu EXCEPT terminalserver.foobar.edu
      #
      # If you're going to protect the portmapper use the name "portmap"
      # for the daemon name. Remember that you can only use the keyword
      # "ALL" and IP addresses (NOT host or domain names) for the
      # portmapper. See portmap(8) and /usr/doc/portmap/portmapper.txt.gz
      # for further information.
      bootpd: 0.0.0.0 in.tftpd: 192.168.0.
      portmap: 192.168.0.
      rpc.mountd: 192.168.0.
      rpc.nfsd: 192.168.0.
      gdm: 192.168.0.
