##  5.9.1. The MBR, boot sectors and partition table
The information about how a hard disk has been partitioned is stored in its first sector (that is, the first sector of the first track on the first disk surface). The first sector is the _master boot record_ (MBR) of the disk; this is the sector that the BIOS reads in and starts when the machine is first booted. The master boot record contains a small program that reads the partition table, checks which partition is active (that is, marked bootable), and reads the first sector of that partition, the partition's _boot sector_ (the MBR is also a boot sector, but it has a special status and therefore a special name). This boot sector contains another small program that reads the first part of the operating system stored on that partition (assuming it is bootable), and then starts it.
The partitioning scheme is not built into the hardware, or even into the BIOS. It is only a convention that many operating systems follow. Not all operating systems do follow it, but they are the exceptions. Some operating systems support partitions, but they occupy one partition on the hard disk, and use their internal partitioning method within that partition. The latter type exists peacefully with other operating systems (including Linux), and does not require any special measures, but an operating system that doesn't support partitions cannot co-exist on the same disk with any other operating system.
As a safety precaution, it is a good idea to write down the partition table on a piece of paper, so that if it ever corrupts you don't have to lose all your files. (A bad partition table can be fixed with **fdisk**). The relevant information is given by the **fdisk -l** command:
```
	`$` `**fdisk -l /dev/had**`
	``
	`Disk /dev/had: 15 heads, 57 sectors, 790 cylinders`
	`Units = cylinders of 855 * 512 bytes`
	``
	`   Device Boot  Begin   Start     End  Blocks   Id  System`
	`/dev/hda1           1       1      24   10231+  82  Linux swap`
	`/dev/hda2          25      25      48   10260   83  Linux native`
	`/dev/hda3          49      49     408  153900   83  Linux native`
	`/dev/hda4         409     409     790  163305    5  Extended`
	`/dev/hda5         409     409     744  143611+  83  Linux native`
	`/dev/hda6         745     745     790   19636+  83  Linux native`
	`$`

```

---
* * *
