#  12.18. Advanced Power Management - APM
##  12.18.1. Linux Compatibility Check
Start by reading the [Battery-Powered-mini-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Battery-Powered/index.html).
For APM to work the machine's firmware must implement the APM Specification. Linux supports versions 1.0 through 1.2 of the standard. To work with Linux the APM BIOS must support 32-bit protected mode connections.
To display information about the APM BIOS on your system you can run **dmesg | grep apm** command or look in the `/proc/apm` file.
* * *
##  12.18.2. Introduction
APM support consists of two parts: _kernel_ support and _user-land_ support.
* * *
###  12.18.2.1. Kernel Support
You need a kernel that has the APM driver compiled in using the appropriate kernel configuration options. Currently most distributions do not ship kernels with the APM driver enabled so you may have to enable the driver using a boot option or to compile a custom kernel. Please see [Kernel-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Kernel-HOWTO/) or your distribution manual for details.
The APM driver can be modularized but this is not recommended since many drivers will disable their APM features if the APM driver is not present when they initialize themselves.
The available APM options are (please see `Documentation/Configure.help` in the kernel source tree for more details):
  * **CONFIG_APM_IGNORE_USER_SUSPEND** Just a workaround for some NEC Versa M series laptops.
  * **CONFIG_APM_DO_ENABLE** Enable APM features at boot time.
  * **CONFIG_APM_CPU_IDLE** Puts CPU in power save mode, if there is nothing to do for the kernel.
  * **CONFIG_APM_DISPLAY_BLANK** Some laptops can use this to turn off the LCD backlight when the screen blanker of the Linux virtual console blanks the screen. Note that this is only used by the virtual console screen blanker, and won't turn off the backlight when using the X Window system.
  * **CONFIG_APM_POWER_OFF** Turns the machine completely down, when using **halt**. This feature works with most laptops without problems.
  * **CONFIG_APM_IGNORE_MULTIPLE_SUSPEND** Just a workaround for IBM™ ThinkPad 560.
  * **CONFIG_APM_IGNORE_SUSPEND_BOUNCE** Just a workaround for Dell Inspiron 3200 and other notebooks.
  * **CONFIG_APM_RTC_IS_GMT** Stores time in Greenwich Mean Time format. It is in fact recommended to store GMT in your real time clock (RTC) in the BIOS.
  * **CONFIG_APM_ALLOW_INTS** Resolves some problems with _Suspend to Disk_ for some laptops, for instance many newer IBM™ ThinkPads.
  * **CONFIG_SMP** Symmetric Multi-Processing support. This enables support for systems with more than one CPU. If you have a system with only one CPU, like most personal computers, say N. Though the default seems to be Y. So it may be enabled if you are unaware. I have got reports that SMP support enabled does interfere with APM. So with a single CPU machine like a laptop you are on the save side, when you N.


Features of the APM driver according to the Kernel documentation file `Documentation/Configure.help`: "The system time will be reset after a USER RESUME operation, the `/proc/apm` device will provide battery status information, and user-space programs will receive notification of APM _events_ (e.g., battery status change). "
* * *
###  12.18.2.2. Userland Support
The most important _userland_ utility is APM events.
If you run a 2.2.x or later kernel and want to experiment, Gabor Kuti <seasons_AT_falcon.sch.bme.hu> has made a kernel patch that allows you to _hibernate_ any Linux system to disk, even if your computers APM BIOS doesn't support it directly. In my humble opinion you don't need this features if your laptop provides a function key to invoke suspend mode directly.
Please see the [Battery Powered Linux Mini-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Battery-Powered/) for detailed information.
Here's what **apmd** can do:
  * apmd(8): logs the battery status to syslog every now and then and runs a proxy script that can take action before suspend or after resume
  * apm(1): prints the current battery status or suspends the computer
  * apmsleep(1): suspends the machine for a limited time
  * xapm(1x): provides a battery meter for X11
  * libapm.a: a library for writing APM applications


Some APM firmware fails to restore mixer settings properly which can result in squeals of feedback in the music after the machine has resumed. A solution is to set up the proxy script so that it calls a mixer application after resume.
From the apmsleep(1) man page: Some computers, especially laptops, can wake up from a low-power suspend to DRAM mode using the Real-time clock (RTC) chip. Apmsleep can be used to set the alarm time in the RTC and to go into suspend or standby mode. An interrupt from the RTC causes the computer to wake-up. The program detects this event, by waiting for a leap in the kernel time and terminates successfully. If no time leap occurs within one minute, or something goes wrong, the exit value will be non-zero. Apmsleep is part of the **apmd** package.
In 2001 Richard Gooch wrote a simple **apmd** alternative which is available in the
Also, take a look at **apmcd** (**apm** based crontab) at
* * *
##  12.18.3. Caveats
If you use another operating system at the same computer make sure that its "suspend" and "hibernate" features don't write to partitions that are used by Linux.
* * *
##  12.18.4. Troubleshooting
If your machine worked with 2.0.x kernels but not with the 2.2.x series, take this advice from Klaus Franken kfr_AT_klaus.franken.de : "The default changed in 2.2. Search in the init-scripts for **halt** and change it to **halt -p** or **poweroff**. See **man halt** , if you don't have this option you need a newer version of **halt**." You may find it in the **SysVinit** package.
On some new machines (for instance HP Omnibook 4150 - 366 MHz model) when accessing `/proc/apm`, you may get a kernel fault **general protection fault: f000**. APM BIOS attempting to use a real mode segment while in protected mode, i.e. it is a bug in your BIOS. .. We have seen a few of these recently, except all the others are in the power off code in the BIOS where we can work around it by returning to real mode before attempting to power off. Here we cannot do this."
According to Kernel docs `Documentation/Configure.help`: "Some other things you should try when experiencing seemingly random, _weird_ problems:
  1. make sure that you have enough swap space and that it is enabled **swapon -s**.
  2. pass the **no-hlt** option to the kernel.
  3. switch on floating point emulation in the kernel and pass the **no387** option to the kernel.
  4. pass the **floppy=nodma** option to the kernel.
  5. pass the **mem=4M** option to the kernel (thereby disabling all but the first 4 MB of RAM).
  6. make sure that the CPU is not over clocked (doesn't seem suitable for mobile machines).
  7. read the
  8. disable the cache from your BIOS settings.
  9. install a fan for the video card or exchange video RAM (doesn't seem suitable for mobile machines).
  10. install a better fan for the CPU (doesn't seem suitable for mobile machines).
  11. exchange RAM chips (doesn't seem suitable for mobile machines).
  12. exchange the motherboard (doesn't seem suitable for mobile machines).


* * *
##  12.18.5. APM and PCMCIA
From the APM (Advanced Power Management) if you've configured your kernel with APM support. ... The PCMCIA modules will automatically be configured for APM if a compatible version is detected on your system. Whether or not APM is configured, you can use **cardctl suspend** before suspending your laptop, and **cardctl resume** after resuming, to cleanly shut down and restart your PCMCIA cards. This will not work with a modem that is in use, because the serial driver isn't able to save and restore the modem operating parameters. APM seems to be unstable on some systems. If you experience trouble with APM and PCMCIA on your system, try to narrow down the problem to one package or the other before reporting a bug. Some drivers, notably the PCMCIA SCSI drivers, cannot recover from a suspend/resume cycle. When using a PCMCIA SCSI card, always use **cardctl eject** prior to suspending the system.".
* * *
##  12.18.6. APM and Resuming X Windows
Some machines have APM firmware that fails to save and restore display controller chip registers across a suspend. Earlier versions of the XFree86 X server did not restore the screen properly after resume, a problem which was addressed by
Sometimes X and APM don't work smoothly together. The machine might even hang. A recommendation from Steve Rader: Some linux systems have their X11 server hang when doing **apm -s**. Folks with this affliction might want to switch to the console virtual terminal and then suspend **chvt 1; apm -s** as root, or, more appropriately **sudo chvt 1; sudo apm -s**. I have these commands in a script, say, **my-suspend** and then do **xapmload --click-command my-suspend** .
* * *
##  12.18.7. Software Suspend
**swsusp** or **shutdown -z** (patch for **sysvinit** needed). It creates an image which is saved in your active swaps. By the next booting the kernel detects the saved image, restores the memory from it and then it continues to run as before you've suspended. If you don't want the previous state to continue use the **noresume** kernel option.
Software suspends may even be better than hibernate, because now I can suspend my Linux system, boot into Microsoft Windows, perform a few illegal operations and be shut down, and then restart my Linux setup exactly where I left off! This is something that cannot be done with hibernation, since that always restores the last state that you suspended from, be it Microsoft Windows or Linux. So if I want to switch to Microsoft Windows to play games or do anything else, I can leave my Linux desktop exactly as it is and return to how I left it.
In recent 2.6 kernels SoftWareSuspend is part of the kernel. You may find it in the section Power Management. But there are also backports to 2.4 available.
Since the original Software Suspend code was written by Gabor Kuti and Pavel Machek back in 1998, three different implementations have been created for the 2.6 kernel, all forks of the same original codebase.
* * *
##  12.18.8. Tips and Tricks
###  12.18.8.1. Battery Status on Text Console
You may use the following entry in `.bashrc` to show the battery level on the command prompt.
* * *
####  12.18.8.1.1. When Using APM
```

export PS1="\$(cat /proc/apm | awk '{print \$7}') \h:\w\$ "

```

---
* * *
####  12.18.8.1.2. When Using ACPI
```

# Color the bash prompt in function of the percentage of battery
# with acpi subsystem.
# Based on the originally apm based script that has been posted
# on debian-laptop by
# Jason Kraftcheck <kraftche at cae.wisc.edu>.
#
# This script is licensed under the GNU GPL version 2 or later,
# see /usr/share/common-licences/GPL on a Debian system or
# http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html on the web.

# (c) 2003 Fabio 'farnis' Sirna <farnis at libero dot it>

function acpi_percent()
{
 if [ `cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state | grep present: |cut -d\  -f18` = "yes" ]; then
  {
   CAPACITY=`cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/info |grep "design capacity:"|cut -d\  -f11`
   LEVEL=`cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state | grep remaining|cut -d\  -f8`
   ACPI_PERCENT=`echo $(( $LEVEL * 100 / $CAPACITY ))`
   if [ "$LEVEL" = "$CAPACITY" ]; then
    echo FULL
   else
    echo $ACPI_PERCENT%
   fi
  }
 else echo "NO BATTERY"
 fi
}

function acpi_charge()
{
 ACPI_CHARGE=`cat /proc/acpi/ac_adapter/AC/state | cut -d\  -f20`
 case $ACPI_CHARGE in
       *on-line*)
         ACPI_CHARGE="+" ;;
       *off-line*)
         ACPI_CHARGE="-" ;;
     esac
     echo $ACPI_CHARGE
}

function acpi_color()
   {
     if  [  "$(acpi_charge)"  =  "+"  ];  then
      {
       if [ `cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state | grep present: |cut -d\  -f18` = "no" ]; then
        echo  "0;31"
       else echo  "1;32"
      fi
     }
     else
       case  $(acpi_percent)  in
          10?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           9?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           8?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           7?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           6?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           5?%)  echo  "0;32"  ;;
           4?%)  echo  "0;33"  ;;
           3?%)  echo  "0;33"  ;;
           2?%)  echo  "0;33"  ;;
           1?%)  echo  "0;31"  ;;
            ?%)  echo  "0;31;5"  ;;
             *)  echo  "0;35"  ;;

       esac
     fi
   }

function  acpi_color_prompt
   {
     PS1='\[\e[$(acpi_color)m\][$(acpi_charge)$(acpi_percent)][\t] \u:\w\$>\[\e[0;37m\] '
   }

   #  linux  console
   if  [  "$TERM"  =  "linux"  ];  then
     PROMPT_COMMAND=acpi_color_prompt
   fi

   function  echo_acpi
   {
     echo -n "($(acpi_charge)$(acpi_percent)) "
   }

```

---
* * *
###  12.18.8.2. Debian GNU/Linux
All "normal" Debian GNU/Linux kernels are APM capable, they just need an append line added to the boot loader configuration file (e.g. `/etc/lilo.conf`.
```

append="apm=on"

```

---
You might use the following parameters (with the appropriate changes) in your boot loader configuration file (e.g. `/etc/lilo.conf` to experiment with ACPI and APM, when compiled in the same kernel. Usage of APM and ACPI at the same time doesn't work, see Kernel docs for details.
```

append="acpi=off apm=on"

```

---
* * *
