#  15.2. Configuration Tools
##  15.2.1. NetEnv
Do you use your laptop in different network environments? At home? In the office? At a customers site?
If yes, the small package "netenv" might be useful for you. When booting your laptop it provides you with a simple interface from which you can choose the current network environment. The first time in a new environment, you can enter the basic data and save it for later reuse.
Netenv sets up a file containing variable assignments which describe the current environment. This can be used by the PCMCIA setup scheme, e.g. like the one that comes with Debian/GNU Linux and perhaps others.
The netenv data can be used for things like:
  1. Network Device: Configure the network device for different environments.
  2. Choose a proper `XF86Config`: Think of using your laptop standalone with touchpad vs. connected to a CRT monitor along with an external mouse. For example, a wheel mouse could be used when docked, but the driver is not compatible with the normal trackpoint or touchpad.
  3. Windowmanager: You can set up your windowmanager appropriate to the current location of your machine.
  4. Printing Environment: The netenv data can easily be used to set up the printing environment.


Netenv is available at **dialog(1)** for its menu interface. Netenv was developed by Gerd Bavendiek.
* * *
##  15.2.2. System Configuration Profile Management - SCPM
SuSE's
* * *
##  15.2.3. ifplugd
* * *
##  15.2.4. divine
  * you describe the possible networks in /etc/divine.conf, including one or more machines that are probably up (routers and NIS servers come to mind).
  * at boot time, you run divine.
  * **divine** starts a thread that injects fake arp requests into the network. The thread will try again up to three times, pausing 1 second between retries. If the last try times out again, the thread will print an error message, leave the interface in the original state and exit cleanly.
  * the main thread just looks for arp replies and exits if one is found.
  * You have one `resolv.conf` per network, for example `/etc/resolv.conf.default` and `/etc/resolv.conf.work`. **divine** will symlink one of them to `/etc/resolv.conf` for you.
  * You can specify a proxy server plus port and divine will write the proxy server to `/etc/proxy`. This can be evaluated inside your shell startup script, like this (**zsh**):
```

export http_proxy="http://`</etc/proxy`/"

```

---
The included perl script edit-netscape-proxy.pl will edit the proxy settings in your Netscape 4 preferences file.
  * You can even specify an additional script to be run for each selection. You can use this to edit `/etc/printcap` or `/etc/issue` or do something else I forgot.


The point about **divine** in contrast to other solutions is that other solutions normally use **ping** or something like that. **divine** can check a large number of networks instantaneously, assuming that the machines you ping answer within one second (.4 seconds are normal on Ethernets). And pinging an unknown address will do an arp request anyway, so why not do an arp request in the first place?"
* * *
##  15.2.5. Mobile IP
From the [Networking-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/NET3-4-HOWTO.html) : "The term _IP Mobility_ describes the ability of a host that is able to move its network connection from one point on the Internet to another without changing its IP address or losing connectivity. Usually when an IP host changes its point of connectivity it must also change its IP address. IP Mobility overcomes this problem by allocating a fixed IP address to the mobile host and using IP encapsulation (tunneling) with automatic routing to ensure that datagrams destined for it are routed to the actual IP address it is currently using."
See also
* * *
###  15.2.5.1. Resources
Sources: Kenneth E. Harker and Dag Brattli
* * *
##  15.2.6. DHCP/BootP
DHCP and BootP are also useful for working in different environments. Please see the [DHCP-HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/DHCP/index.html) .
* * *
##  15.2.7. PPPD Options
The **pppd** command can be configured via several different files: **pppd file /etc/ppp/ <your_options>** .
* * *
##  15.2.8. /etc/init.d
You may even choose to do your configuration by editing the `/etc/init.d` files manually.
* * *
##  15.2.9. PCMCIA - Schemes
How can I have separate PCMCIA device setups for home and work? This is fairly easy using PCMCIA _scheme_ support. Use two configuration schemes, called **home** and **work**. For details please read the appropriate chapter in the
* * *
##  15.2.10. Bootloaders
###  15.2.10.1. LILO
From Martin J. Evans I have taken this recommendation: The first point to note is that **init** will take any arguments of the form **name=value** as environment variable assignments if they are not recognized as something else. This means you can set environment variables from the LILO boot prompt before your rc scripts run. I set the **LOCATION** environment variable depending on where I am when I boot Linux. e.g.
```

LILO: linux LOCATION=home

```

---
Or ```

LILO: linux LOCATION=work

```

---
Or simply ```

LILO: linux

```

---
where failing to set **LOCATION** means the same as **LOCATION=home** (i.e. my default). Instead of typing **LOCATION=place** each time you boot you can add an entry to your `/etc/lilo.conf` file and use the append instruction. e.g. ```
